three two to one was uh was this
beverage concocted by you the first one
yes you you created bribery if you ask
me yes if you have Dudley what is he
said he would say maybe he was there
maybe he was there he might have been
there he was definitely there yeah but
whose idea it's hard to say with these
tears Joe Cheers
good to see you you look good you look
good too sure hey that sure is the new
Ben O'Brien special get that shirt you
get this from your website because of
the meteor calm you go to the store and
it's there yeah so what people you know
I had Steve on Steve Rinella our good
friend and yes we were talking about
what they're dealing with what meat
eaters doing
mmm this is a very strange thing where
they've they're this giant multimedia
corporation is stepped in I'll throw in
a ton of money at meat-eater and all
these different companies that are
involved in the outdoors all these
outdoor activities that is true and
they're putting it all together into one
super Network juggernaut juggernaut of
outdoor activities true it's true
yeah it is um something I've never been
a part of before it's something like
I've never seen before in the hunting
industry it has existed before I don't
think so no I don't think so
can't be can't be so we would have known
yeah above what better to try then
something that's never been done
well you had been doing your podcast for
what like a year now about ten months
about ten month that's a month and and
we were just saying that I tried to get
you to do one five years ago five years
ago yeah Ben and I went on a moose hunt
in British Columbia and I would say that
it was like friendship at first yeah we
had a great Mike hawkers yeah and Sam so
all yes with us as well like I would
always describe that is like the most
fun that I've ever had on a hunt it was
good maybe ever
I don't know we've done a lot of stuff
we were laughing a lot that's why it was
like a lot of fun and a lot
wasn't a hardship like we didn't sleep
in tents no we slept at Mike's house
which is great and then you know it was
a lot of hiking and stuff and you know
wasn't it successful until like the very
last days and you shot a moose in the
celebration was fantastic we had a good
time we had a great super hammered the
last night remember last night what were
you drinking like some kind of spiced
rum or some kind I don't know thank God
it got real it's well when you're drunk
and you're drunk in the middle of
nowhere and there's wolves everywhere
it's a different culture remember we
remember that we went and we shot your
bull right and then we took the heart in
the liver yeah we started drinking
heavily and you're up there just cooking
liver and onions cooking up a giant
moose heart so we had like the fuel of
organs of an animal you just killed like
and then simcha kill it's kind of like
trash bag Canadian rum that was terrible
yeah and that's very party dude but it
worked it worked a real good I don't
know what's a good rum or bad rum at all
to me like I kind of get good whisky now
I understand whisky
sort of but be an Irish it's just like
it's all it's in there and then it just
does what it does when it's in there
yeah once the party's begun
like here's what I don't get tequila
people no this is good tequila this but
every tequila I ever drank I go like
this what about that George Clooney
tequila what is like that scatters own
tequila yeah doesn't he is it tequila
Jamie Jamie oh no listen I'll tell you
what sounds like a like a fancy George
clean tequila can suck a fat dick
because Ron White's got his own tequila
numero juan yeah sarcastic tequila it's
just that's what he calls it numero wand
numero one tequila I think that's what
it's called right number one or is it
number one it's number one number one
but like if George Clooney wasn't good
enough at everything else and all
handsome and wonderful he made a tequila
company and like did it right if you
listen to the origin story of it they
did it right well there's number one Ron
White no matter I wanted shit to Ron's
is good shit I think George Clooney's
got enough money so fuck him I think he
sold it for millions and billions of
dollars yeah see what happened is he got
married and he realized listen I'm gonna
have some money on the side keeps his
shit hits the rocks
yeah what do I like to do and I'm a
little bit bored and not feeling it
tequila yeah every man who has ever
heard an awful divorce story no matter
how good it's going say it every awful
divorce started with I do they all
started with idea they all started with
thank good intention you you're amazing
and good intentions started with good
times man
I will say again I won't say the name of
the person cuz I would just be seen come
out knock it there was a feller that I
liked I knew in my younger years that
got married and I was in the the wedding
party yes so she got that what she got
there was weed it's very dangerous
dangerous for you yeah you're living
Montana you can't handle this yet no no
it's not legal there they made it
illegal medical they made medical legal
then they voted it out
well fucking savages go with abl
sorceries they made medical legal than
they had dispensaries and they voted the
dispensaries out when I was in Bozeman
last time I was there they were they
were shutting down the doors or the
dispensaries you live in the golden land
here yeah but you know what I hesitate
to say this but it's probably for the
best just to keep people like me we're
in a safe space it's just me and you
we're in the trust tree we're in the
nest Bozeman is so special it's such a
cool little town we shouldn't be talking
about I shouldn't be telling people
right it is a terrible place Bears will
eat you alive really in the streets
there in the street but your good thing
is the dumb people get eaten by bears
that's true like you you people turn up
missing like some assholes deals
lawnmowers he'll just turn up missing
out there just forest yeah yeah they get
cocky and you know people that just make
it to live to be a hundred in LA they
could eat when they're like 35 yeah it's
beautiful
now that's local place yeah but that's
in the summer give a fuck I was there in
the winter it's like it's like that but
white yeah you ever seen the show Game
of Thrones yeah in the winter it's like
White Walkers right there's a large ice
wall when did you move we just my family
just moved there we just moved into our
brand-new home about three weeks ago
there mr. Rogan
but you were there before were you ready
yeah I was ranting living out of it I
lived out of a storage unit for a time
I'd heard about this there's a rumor
yeah wild bet O'Brien O'Brien lives in
storage units a storage unit did it was
a nice storage unit shout out that an
airport north storage oh well did you
get a gym membership or something
listen Airport North stores it's time
for me to tell the truth oh my god I
can't believe you're coming clean with
I'm coming and clean I did sleep in
there some nights I slept in in a
storage unit because their laws against
that probably it's probably getting the
contract when you sign not to do that
really I did it anyway
what do you think what happened yeah
they'll probably get out of the storage
unit and get a hotel you fucking weirdo
you fucking loser but I just did that
you know as the sacrifice for my family
you're building a house I needed to be
where my job was plus you camp out there
yeah you can't pop this beautiful man
it's beautiful and in Bozeman is so
popular that time of year that it's hard
to oh that's right yeah it's hard to
find a place to stay for a short period
Sara bein bees and all that stuff that
ain't really going down amazing Airbnb
they just figured out a way to like rent
houses on make money when no one's there
like yeah oh yeah I'm good how did
nobody ever figure that out before it's
kind of crazy
there's a lot of these technology
companies Alec why aren't we doing that
before uber is a great one dude I was
coming home the other night yeah and
there was five lifts behind me so you
know lift is different because they have
that weird thing on the dash that little
light yes and it was like I was being
chased by these purple robots I was like
what the fuck is this is a strange I was
gonna ask if you're at the storage the
big storage unit story for no today as
you guys were just talking about that no
this big storage unit story yeah you
remember like just a show that was on
the storage wars whatever oh yeah yeah
the guy that was responsible for selling
them to people sold one to a guy for
$500 an inside was a safe that had seven
point five million dollars in cash in it
look at that guy was this one no wasn't
on the show just happened recently so
the guy that bought it why actually was
contacted by lawyers from the people who
owned it and he made a deal with them
what's the deal what's the get a million
or something like that
Joey do you want to go into a business
storage wars yeah guys face this face
what a chance what the fuck is dumb you
have to feel you have a whole show about
people finding things in storage units
you sell a storage unit and it's got
seven million dollars in seven a half
seven and a half million dollars still
though the dude gets to keep a million
how does that work though isn't it his
storage unit how many just that kind of
fuck off what do you mean lost seven
million dollars well for example come
after you how dirty is that money
exactly they must be where it's safe and
it was just the safe only in the storage
unit
oh that's got to be something bad and
they get that handsome dude that was in
the beginning of Ozarks handsome Mexican
straight-up murderer he's gonna come
visit you yeah hello man yeah that guy
was my favorite I was so sad when they
spoiler so sad when they killed him like
the dude from Breaking Bad that comes
around yeah we twins but did you see
Ozark ever CEOs are I watched like the
first couple episodes and I fucked it up
for you yeah because there's a pivotal
moment that I just gave us too many
there's so many shows though there are
so many shows but that's a damn good one
is it good that is a damn good show
what's the guy this the guy who stars in
that Jason Bateman bavin he's excellent
and the woman Laura Linney Linney she's
amazing
yeah the family's amazing the kids
amazing it's fucking show man it's a
show nope you get sucked in and that
Netflix lets you watch them all like are
you ready
listen let me ask you a question I'm in
yes I asked a lot of people is not said
this at a Christmas party and I got with
a bunch of hunters and I got you know a
couple like the stink-eye like what's
this guy talking conservatives I don't
know but in that I think maybe I'm just
weird
you've seen the movie the greatest
showmen oh is that the musical it is
I've been forced to watch segments of
that with my wife and children
it is fantastic very good movie Hugh
Jackman's an angel he's an angel
an Australian angel he is he sent down
here to save us save us you ever seen
him dance and sing he's magical I'm a
hunter I got a hunting podcast but I'm
telling you you're a manly man Lou that
beard yeah look at this thing
but I love that movie it's great movie I
listen to it on the Pandora the greatest
showman channel and I
the tunes listen did my favorite comedy
on TV is the unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt
okay so I can't be talking about manly
things are not manly things Hugh Jackman
perform announces world tour set to
perform the greatest showmen songs he's
gonna just sing look at him look at it
oh yeah look at him wow man show
gorgeous man he's just I mean it's
unbelievable unbelievable well yeah I
get I get made fun of for this like my
of course my son likes it my wife likes
it but I enjoy I I get me like your son
he's too you don't know anybody but he's
like the music something's going on yeah
he's just like there's someone the TV
yeah he's not like a crazy he's not
writing that critique yeah but if you
put on Dora the Explorer then you
switched it over to that bullshit he was
this fucking guy dancing no Theodore
aback Oh Dora yeah listen I think that I
watch like if you watch things like Game
of Thrones where they are burning
children yeah and like it's entertaining
but sometimes I need a break I'd like to
watch a man dance around sing for a
woman whatever don't matter those those
shows can get dark where you like what
am i doing to myself you know like
narcos oh yeah and they were just going
to a fucking nightclub and gun people
down yes sitting there watching like
women and children who smoked and it's
it's what's the other the show with
Anthony Hopkins on HBO what's that the
robots Oh Westworld yeah that's the same
way yes they're shooting kids on there
though well the kids a robot we yeah
yeah the shot one right in the face
so every once in a while you need to
sprinkle a little bit of musical in your
life I believe yeah what is that do you
think
and here's coming from a person that's
been on a bunch of life-changing
experiences and I know you have I want
to talk to you about something yes
especially the one in Nepal we almost
died you saw children and wolves babies
we talked about that on the last podcast
but it's probably be worth revisiting um
what do you think this is like why are
we so obsessed with life or death drama
that's artificial well you see it like
in the in the in the show West world
they talk about like it being a game
yeah it being this game of XS like what
can I do in my real life right so when
you watch TV and you watch murdering and
you watch this this evil thing come to
life
you're just you're it's it really is
something that you can be trained
sporty can't do that in your regular
life well fruits for sure with Westworld
what you're getting is basically a real
live version of that Red Dead Redemption
yes right so when when you play that we
were talking about the other day how
this guy got in trouble because they
have all these things in the game that
you can do to people and this guy like
tie this hooker up and threw her off a
cliff and shit and she's dark you can do
whatever you want but they were they
were filming this stuff and putting it
on YouTube and then YouTube would get
mad and YouTube pulled them off but then
people were like well wait a minute
though why how come you can just do it
like once why did you have that in the
game but it did when my dad was my age
30 40 years ago there would they would
never have enter there's nothing done
anything like Game of Thrones or West
world ever ever in fact there was a West
world and wasn't anywhere near like it
is you look in the modern-day good movie
yeah but like I think we just stretched
out the limits to which we're willing to
explore like really terrible and evil
things for entertainment we've
definitely changed what we're willing to
accept and where the bar is in terms of
quality the bars through the roof its
immersive to the point where you can't
even like you can't even explain what's
your experience when you're watching
these shows yeah so look if you go and
you see some great comedy from the 1990s
like you see watch a Dave Chappelle or
Chris Rock special yeah in the 90s that
holds up 100%
Seinfeld I get that but what I'm saying
is like if that was out today it would
be a 100% stand-up special yeah oh you
see the new Chris Rock bigger and
blacker it's fucking amazing but if you
tried to put some bullshit ass 1990s TV
show on on Netflix if you try to like
finagle some CSI Miami shit some
nonsense
I don't know if CSI Miami is that even a
show is that a real show that's a show
there's a CSI Miami there is there's
several there's many CSI guests
but we've like more an order we've
explored ER there's so many of those but
we've expanded our willingness to like
explore things that are I mean Game of
Thrones for exam
ball is one of the best shows ever
created in my opinion for sure but it
explores some unthinkable things awful
things awful things
well it's the whole show spoiler alert
is around a brother and sister who
fucked and had a whole family yeah yeah
so it explores these like these things
that in we wouldn't never even touch
upon in our media in the 50s 60s even
the 70s we touched upon those things in
a way that we do now know not only that
but here's the thing law and order's not
a bad show like if you watch it you'll
be in a don't know so what happened why
did we go not good enough like what it
was it was it matter that was it did
they go not good enough or did is it
like like porn look if you watch porn
okay and you watch some porn from the
1980s and then you flipped through like
you porn not that I would ever do that
but if you did do that and looked at all
the different categories you'd be like
what the fuck happened yeah like why are
people why is gagging something people
are looking for it's funny it's not an
accident category we've are we've
expanded our ability to conceive of
things yes in a media space where we can
create you can create dragons that that
breathe ice you can create yeah there's
there's things you can be transported
like listen this isn't real so I can I
can do this right I can have this scene
of rape or infidelity or incest that
seems it's appropriate to me only in
this fantasy world man sometimes I get
down on that stuff like you watch enough
of it you're just like I need a musical
I need to be inspired that life is grand
and I did that's how I feel about it man
sometimes it comes across and like this
dude washes musicals but I do for a
little bit of a break something's wrong
with it but I'm weirded out about is
this natural human inclination towards
progression in everything good or bad is
that things just keep ramping up well
but we're progressing with our
storylines for like humanity in a weird
way in media but we're also like
suppressing a lot of our we're trying to
suppress through social justice a lot of
the same things right well some people
are but I think it's a small very
vocal minority I think in reality
there's the vast majority people find
out about said suppression or upset by
it and look what in the fuck you talking
about with this safe spaces and all this
nonsense
most people that hear that stuff are
going oh this is just nonsense buy a few
like really loud activist is like even
my podcast was something like as serious
as hunting is because you're killing
step like that's yeah going out into the
world and taking plucking something that
you didn't put there yeah taking it away
but like I think that the core of what I
think you do well and what I think
others should try to do is like ask why
why are we willing to why is Game of
Thrones the the most-watched show that's
all right
why why why I can't answer that question
conversation because it's if it's so
fictitious right it's so obviously
fiction you're living in this fictional
world you have fictional White Walkers
you have dragons you have people that
can survive in fire yeah but it's
parallels to real life and then these
these ridiculous fantasies but then
these parallels to real life that that
travel along the same path and like you
don't get to choose between the dragons
and the incest yeah both there at the
same time I think it it fulfills a lot
of like base needs but it does so in
this way that's obviously false yeah
it's like why are superhero so huge to
us if you stop and think about the
number of blockbusters that are
superhero movies that are comic-book
movies they're coming out like once
every couple of months it's crazy that
was a rare beast when I was a yes when I
was a kid there's a Hulk movie I would
have jump for joy
there was no goddamn spider-man movie
when I was a kid there was a TV show and
it sucked okay
it was a goddamn cartoon TV show
spider-man spider-man does whatever a
spider can spins a web any size catches
thieves just like flies look out here
comes a spider-man it was terrible yep
and I used to get up early to watch it
because I was a huge comic book you've
watched the Lou Ferrigno Hulk right fuck
yeah I watched
I was a little bit I mean like you've
watched the Batman yeah with Adam West
yeah you watch him now and you're like
what is happening so they came out with
Superman he was like the first movies
that what is this a Spider Man TV show
Wow
that's another team look I got in the
back ii have the background doing who's
that guy he don't look you don't do
anything good it's got a wooden stick he
need to know those shit season no less
spider-man can shoot webs out of his
hands and that wooden sticks probably
not gonna do much
then then Spiderman sort of changed his
ability right because you used to be
able to do like now he could just
basically fly I mean just hurls himself
through the air and sticks to buildings
you know used to be a little harder to
swing around back is like let me drop my
backpack full of textbooks yeah get to
it
but he's that was there was no
spider-man movies when I was a kid and
there was a Superman movie and the
Superman movie begat the Batman movie
Batman movie came out Michael Keaton it
was big big success people were shocked
at Michael Keaton was Batman but it
worked was that like Danny DeVito was
the penguin yeah everybody got a shot at
Batman it was one of those things if you
were Batman you must be the it guy
George Clooney George Clooney's Batman
Christian Bale's Batman Arnold
Schwarzenegger was mr. freeze that's
right
but they got to Ben Affleck and they're
like no player whoa isn't that funny
like that's real like the amount of
people that will see you as Batman it's
whether or not they really believe it
they like like Christian Bale I believe
that God could be Batman but Michael
Keaton for a longest time was Batman yes
but see he started it off so that the
difference between Michael Keaton is
there was no one before him other than
Bruce Wayne and he was the first dark
real Batman I forgot about Val Kilmer I
forgot about Val Kilmer god damn it Val
Kilmer was fucking Batman what his house
is human being Val Kilmer is he's a
beast
dude him was Doc Holliday Oh in that uh
what's his what's the name of that movie
tombstone tombstone god damn that's one
of the best that's one of the best he
was specimens ever
he was believable that was a that was a
straight-up murder I still the most
quoted but see nobody will think back on
Ben Affleck's career and be like he was
Batman it's not just that he's done some
good move yeah but is also he always
says there's nothing around his career
that he he must feel like how man if
if this goes bad it's gonna ruin me he's
done so many great things he's a very
good actor don't get me wrong but what
is it about him does he too handsome no
because Val Kilmer's gorgeous they're
all what all those folks were very
handsome is it jiggly
this is him and Jennifer Lopez decides
that it should say jiggly jiggly Healey
whatever the fuck it is do your losses
giggling look not everybody should get
that kind of pussy it's just it
shouldn't be on your diet it's too rich
for you some people get diabetes right
they need to lay off the sugar
everybody's got different tolerance you
cake every morning Jennifer Lopez
obviously besides being beautiful and
having a body like some sort of a
test-tube person some lab-created super
freak obviously she knows how to throw
that thing she knows how to throw that
thing I'm gonna be hard - it would be
hard to argue with that fact yeah let
some goddamn Nolan Ryan pussy yeah yeah
I I'm together I'm not unaware of what
you're talking I'd love the fact that
those things go so hard they go so hard
and then they fizzle out they just you
know what it's like it's like having a
like a Pinto with a fucking Corvette zr1
engine stuffed and there's no structure
to it was listed design those wheels are
not designed for that relation well is
that why I'm not you live in Hollywood
you tell me is that why these Hollywood
relationships always like become huge
and go away sometimes they do sometimes
they work I live in Montana mo here's my
thing this Alex Rodriguez guy that she's
with super athlete smashes it obviously
it seems to be working
they were together for a long time
they've been together though months
weeks just when she was with that little
oh that's right that's right yeah she
left know which one was that that was
the dancer that was the dancer can I
take take a quick this is a like a kind
of a PSA public service announcement we
take a hard left in general Lopez and
get ourselves over to Kanye
real quick yeah we can but look at that
Alex Rodriguez okay take a look at that
man super athlete probably got a dick
like a goddamn baseball bat right
anybody that has that many buttons look
at those top buttons coming down size of
his fist this size that guy's paw he's
at two plus two hundred million dollar
contract yes so he's done four hundred
million dollars and a giant home with
that bet super athlete of course it's
gonna work it's gonna smash put together
let's talk about hunting
he knows that guy knows how to keep it
together right that guy knows he knows
everybody's know and the balls come in
his way he smashes that fucking thing
Jen I think Jennifer Lopez is not
tolerating any losers in her life at
this point that's all that's left
she's out of fear but that's all around
look at that guy yeah there you go super
athlete big giant hands I'm a big sports
fan I came up when he was just he was it
was a god a baseball guy they seemed to
get along together see that makes sense
to me just like it made sense with Val
Kilmer was Batman that sense to me but
what Ben Affleck was Ben Affleck I don't
know how his relationship was with her I
don't know maybe it was great it seemed
like it was a tumultuous but I'm not I'm
just observing do I know nobody knows
yeah but there's like some people where
you need to like have an online vote she
this person forgot that the people will
tell you they would not have voted I do
not believe they would have voted for
Ben Affleck right I do not believe
here's the problem like the rock too big
for Batman here's why because everybody
would be like oh it's you the rock
you're wearing a fucking bat suit is
that the wrong six nine they would they
could do that in the movie this they can
make it funny be like yeah are you in
the movie they can make it funny oh yeah
right is this the rock are you the rock
he could never be Superman
it takes his fucking glasses off you
like you she's not a giant dude the last
time works the last guy that was the
Superman was an I was an unknown Henry
yeah Superman they ran out they ran out
of the well the well Zi it's like if
they try to make another Hulk people
know enough you've had eight hulks
they're gonna keep making them through
they're gonna make a hundred more Star
Wars in the next five years and you're
gonna have to sit through like Han Solo
the pre pre pre cool the can they do
that that doesn't make any sense because
Harrison Ford was han Solo when Han Solo
was young
oh yeah but can't just do that they just
came out with a han Solo movie
back on that that last one didn't was a
flaw so hot yet they asked me just ask
Joe I'm here for you George Lucas george
lucas's oh now bathing and money he's
back in a warm wet money he just forgot
to listen to the podcast he just uh just
gets touched all day what is a sock Adam
I can see oh they're making up the rent
a superhero's is that Superman in the
background that's Superman in the
background see that's the DC Universe
there he is look there is he looks good
yeah but as long as they don't try to
make him Superman is he a bad shot Jamie
is he a bad guy or a good guy honestly
I've never heard of this character so I
have no idea where he fits in that I
remember when Netflix came out with Luke
Cage I was like wow that's an obscure
one that was a good one no but the Black
Panther was good the Black Panther was
kids a great movie yeah it's amazing it
took so long I'm like oh Black Panther
movie racist took so long and it was a
giant smash hit
there you go white people get it
together no comment
Ben O'Brien in the conservative world
has to be careful this podcast could
sink his ship I'm Pro nuance yeah listen
I think the way that I came up with it
is because in in the hunting world there
is this speaking of conservative there's
this like there's a conservative
traditionalist right yeah and there's
the more progressive folks that you have
met and been around you've been around
both but around both that are more
environmentalist more public lands more
access right so there's kind of like -
of course there's always two sides in
politics but there's in this case two
distinct sides right and the line kind
of gets drawn around one a little bit
around guns but also a little bit around
the environment so yeah part of the
biggest issue in politics for a hunter
or angler right now is like I really
like guns I like the Second Amendment I
dig what's going on there I'd like to
support that but what I also like is
healthy ecosystems and environment and I
like habitat for wild game to live in
public lands and access well it just so
happens that a lot of the A+ rated
politicians for the NRA
are like f - or D plus rated in
protecting wildlife and wild lands
a lot of that surround extraction and
different things like that but
extraction of minerals and oil and
natural reefs for valuable lands right
so then change the the way these lands
are scheduled yeah what it's under yeah
I mean there was a lot of those are
around monuments of course that was one
big one but it's just around like the
general basis of even as a hunter but
all Americans but as a hunter I'm faced
with like I love wildlife I love wild
places clean water clean lands I'm all
for that
that's a huge part of what I believe it
but I also believe in the Second
Amendment I believe in my rights defend
my family I believe in my right to to
own firearms and and to do that so I
believe in those two things but because
our politics are the way they are it
doesn't leave room for those two beliefs
when I'm at at the voting booth
sometimes it hardly leaves room for
those beliefs in normal conversations
with people unless you absolutely know
that the person is going to be objective
and as your shirt says Pro nuance this
that caught the idea that you you
shouldn't be able to defend your family
is where it gets crazy
yeah it doesn't get crazy that you want
to be able to defend your family like
why do these movies all have robberies
and break-ins and bad guys well why if
these are real things there's a real
things yes so the idea that you should
just be a sitting duck because there's
so many crazy fucks out there that want
to shoot up schools and go on mass
shootings that somehow or another you're
being conflated with them that you're
being confused with them or categorized
with them like how how is that that
these are different things they are just
both involved guns they are they're
things it's like the insole that drove
all those people in Toronto member that
yep you know what if that keeps
happening that's happened many times
you've seen people kill people with cars
over the last few years it's been like
four or five big events are they a
mutually exclusive like I want to be
able to defend my family and own
firearms and have that freedom that's a
big part of this country but I also
don't want people to die mass shootings
I don't want that I want and on the
other side of the coin with when it
comes like environmental issues and
around hunting public lands and things
of that nature
I want coal miners to have job I want
people that working in extraction
industries to have an opportunity to
work and live and and do what they need
to do but I also want to protect our
ecosystems at all cost because you can't
replace that shit right and there's got
to be other jobs out there if the
government put its resources instead to
propping up old ways of doing business
that pollute the environment versus new
ways of doing business there are
subsidies and with yeah with government
programs it's entirely possible yeah
they're certainly reasonable and and
healthy ways to mine copper ore that
they're waste I don't know there is I
mean there's responsible ways to do that
but at what you know at what cost you're
still you're still extracting right
you're still doing something do it
you're still changing the natural
environment there yes someone was trying
to make that argument with fracking with
me I was talking to him about that is it
Josh Fox's documentary what is uh he was
on the podcast the something fracking
nation what was his he made a it was a
very good documentary and it was he when
I got him on the podcast was interesting
because he seemed like he had been
attacked a lot for it him even
misunderstood like some of the questions
I was asking yeah maybe they were coming
from me and I was saying no this is just
like what is it called fractionation
what is it gasoline that's it oh yeah
okay it's um it's disturbing you're
watching some aspects of it like when
they were widened lighting their water
on fire and then someone tried to say oh
there's some places where you've always
been able to light your water on fire
sounds like okay okay of lighting your
argument someone said that that's not
really from walking I said okay these
people said that there was no lighting
the water on fire then people started
fracking the water smelly shit they
started lighting it on fire
though you're saying those are not
connected over the years ago we've been
able to light our water on fire for a
number of reasons but before the July I
would think to be confident about that
and I'm not confident about it but to be
confident about what that guy said to me
when he was saying that it's always been
like that you would have to have done
massive research you would have to a
that time there you would have to been
working either directly or indirectly
with the scientists that are collecting
the data I'm gonna have to get it yeah
from them you'd have to know you'd have
to see it you don't you were sure
cursory way or you have to be a person
who is not interested in the actual
truth they just have an idea that they
want to push through and this is a weird
thing with certain right-wing folks
there's a weird thing they want to push
through that business is good and
environmentalists are all pussies and
hippies and weirdos and losers and these
things don't jive in the world of
someone who actually loves and
appreciates the actual earth of course
man because but there is no way that
anyone could argue right there's in the
hunting world or some other like access
and in public land and all these things
become a big deal but there you can
define access in a ton of different ways
yeah to me access well to me access
could be I like wilderness or did the
only way you can access at his own foot
via via trailhead someone else might say
access to me is elderly folks or
disabled folks failing to get on into a
car and drive through a road in public
land or get into an ATV and drive and so
politics are being what they are
politicians take this term of access it
happened around national monuments they
take one side said the president is
stealing your land and the other side
says the president is giving back your
land somebody they're either both sides
are full of shit or one of them is I
remember when this came up Patagonia
which is a giant company that doors had
a big ad on the internet that said the
president saw your land and then I heard
Rinella talk about and he said this is I
I'm gonna paraphrase but he basically
said if you say that the president still
your land you're not being careful with
your words yes and you're not being act
you're being inflammatory yes you're
being absolutely inflammatory yeah
because it's not again that that you're
talking about Grand staircase-escalante
in Bears ears national monitors being in
Utah being explained to people what
happened boy I'll do my best to show
Thank You Ben so so the antiquities Act
let's go back to the end
take what exactly right it's to protect
the antiquities act is to protect
culturally or socially but mostly
culturally significant pieces of land it
all the way to the things like the Grand
Canyon right and so spin it up to the
end of there's a lot that I just skipped
over but I'm gonna spin it up to the end
of the Obama administration President
Obama used his executive power to
protect large swaths millions of acres
around bit bout around bears ears
National Monument
to protect not only the the significant
places for Native Americans and for
Native tribesmen around
bears ears but many millions of acres
around that and so then it becomes the
problem I have in the why that kind of
that t-shirt exists it becomes a
political football throw back and forth
it's not at this point in time what's
best for bears is what's best for that
National Monument was best for it to be
fairly owned what's best for the people
of jobs the place it becomes what's best
for each side in their rhetoric and so
President Trump asked secretary former
secretary interior Ryan Zinke to review
that I think it was like ten monuments
to see if they should be reduced based
on the predictions that Obama had put
put into place so he reviews these ten
monuments he cuts out eight of them and
hones in on two places bears ears and
grand staircase-escalante they then say
we're going to reduce the size of these
monuments
when you say cuts out eight of them what
do you mean by cuts out they review the
other eight and say they're fine they're
good to go no change is necessary some
would say they did that as a as a straw
man as eight strong men and knock them
over and look at those other two they
said we will reduce the area that is
designated as a National Monument and
here again it comes to both sides they
would say because President Obama
wielded his powers corruptly to protect
to be as an environmentalist to protect
lands that didn't need protected under
the antiquities Act
antiquities act does say it should be
the smallest acreage possible to protect
so now you get into stuff that I'm not
an expert in around legal jargon and
going back to things that were written
in the 1930s but we get to a point where
one side saying here is the Republicans
trying to shrink down these monuments so
that they can then go the companies that
are can then go and lease these places
for mining but they can't currently do
under protections as a National Monument
the other side is saying we're trying to
protect culturally significant lands and
these millions of acres need protected
they need protected for lots of reasons
so you end up with those two sides
talking now it's easy to sort of make a
high hyperbolic hyperbolic I always want
to say that wrong get that back with the
hyperbolic argument one way or the other
right yeah you could kind of exaggerate
your position one way or the other and
it's being done that way yeah it's been
done that way
are they drilling there now what they're
listing let's look that up but there's
some leases that were that were approved
for for bears ears I know for sure see
that's one of the things where people
talk about the president doesn't have
any real power
there's conquerors understand like yeah
oh really they have some fucking there's
checks and balances but there's
executive orders that can come yeah yeah
listen I'm not the expert on this I'm
sure I fumble through some of the
details on that but but to me the bottom
line is something like that why I like
to live in the Centers because something
like that becomes it becomes a thing
that it becomes a PR hit yeah it becomes
a thing that people are throwing back
there throwing bears ears back and forth
because at the end of Obama's
administration he made the designation
and they repealed it or reversed it a
year later right or some amount of time
around a year later so it was only the
way it was for a year then everybody's
making it look that's a government stole
your land it just brought it back to
exactly where it was before but they did
open up the possibility which is why
Obama did in the first place yes they
opened up the possibility for drilling
and they did resource exhibition and
that's what scares the shit out of
people
yes like there's this - they're in these
situations there always seems to be spin
on both sides and being a part of these
debates on a daily basis and being a
part of this infant like it's bringing
in this information on daily basis it's
tiresome you know you get tired yeah
it's hard of being pandered to by people
getting tired of having to hear that
this value system is right or this value
system is right and there's no room to
be anywhere close to the center around
this stuff so you just get is this
tiresome you know public lands are the
only place where I look at it and say no
you got to leave that to the government
you got to leave it to the federal
government no don't leave it to the
states it's the only place I mean you
know when I think about all the
different things like with like
legalization of marijuana and now
they're gonna legalize psilocybin
apparently in Oregon they're talking
about doing that or like yeah leave it
to the states they should be able to
vote that in they should be able to vote
in like all the crazy laws you have in
weird states and some states have state
taxes some states don't it's all good
that's not good but when it comes to
like federal land the problem is if
these states get into debt and this is
what people need to understand they can
sell it off yeah so that if Utah is in
debt let's just i'm just not picking on
utah but if they just for some reason
they wind up in debt which states do all
the time and then they sell off a giant
chunk of land to some oil company now
you can't camp there anymore you can and
by the way that's your fucking land and
not a tax it's not just utah that's your
land you live in Arizona you live in
Florida that's your land you live in
Massachusetts it's yours that land in
Utah is the whole fucking all of us
they'll collected human race living on
North American - this listen to this
shit hey this is like there's a guy
named Senator Mike Lee of the great
state of Utah which you rightly put that
a lot of these things revolve around the
Utah for some reason why they have a lot
of the percentage of it's like something
that 70% of their acreage is is
controlled by the federal government
that's why Plus Mormons
let me I'll take the first point you
take that so Senator Mike Lee comes out
and says right this is like the perfect
the perfect way to spend this type of
thing he starts he calls back to in
senator Orrin Hatch from Utah has also
done this call back to like the
sagebrush rebellion and things like that
calling back this it's the saying that
wilderness is akin to the European
aristocracy
because only a certain few can go there
because you have to have two working
legs that can get you up into wilderness
part of the basis of a speech he gave
and is giving it several times is that
public land and wilderness specifically
is it is akin to the European
aristocracy because only certain folks
can go there if you would open up access
cut roads through it then it would be
for everyone so then it gets back to the
semantics in the spin you know and the
things that politicians push forward to
try to convince you well they're still
for you
he's right in a certain way what he's
right in is that if you put roads
through anybody could go through anytime
they wanted on a car if they had no legs
no can barely walk if they are in a
wheelchair normally but they can drive a
car yeah they can go in deep into the
woods and they can enjoy all of the
wilderness they surely can't stop that
is true however it's not like there's a
lot of places that they can't also go to
they can go a lot of places where they
can do that you can go to Yellowstone
yes
damn gorgeous you just drive through
that and you see all the trees and the
animals and Yellowstone is a wonderful
proxy for going outside yeah it's an
introduction to what it is without
really being in it yeah it's like a zoo
that's free-range yeah is exactly what
it is I live right I live an hour from
there and I've taken my family there and
it just feels like I used to feel like
oh man this is an illicit place as
somebody who's gone into the wilderness
and and tackle these big challenges and
hiked around in crazy places this
Yellowstone is like it makes me feel
uncomfortable then I somebody said to me
like it was this guy named Cody rich who
has a podcast called the rich outdoors
he said to me it's like it's like it's
I'm an ambassador for real wilderness
hmm it's like a way to present
to people that this thing exists without
them having to actually strap on the
pack get some trekking poles and hike
miles up into the the wilderness this is
part of the problem whenever you're
talking about the wilderness is so few
people go to it yeah it's like if we
were talking about the surface of Mars
with the people to create the rover well
you know how the surface Mars is it gums
up the wheels it's red Stefan's red how
many people are going to Mars how many
people are really going to the
wilderness yeah not that many there's
more people going to the wilderness than
Mars but I've always said like the the
public lands movement and I am
definitely part of it I feel like I
could probably represent the money's
things better but like I i'm definitely
part of it it's it's scary and a little
in a lot of ways because people can say
like keep it public man keep it public
that's like apple pie and bald eagles
and freedom it's an idea that we all pay
into a thing we all own anybody right
can go there it's super easy to get on
that train mm-hmm it is real easy to get
on that train and lose your critical
thought around what what is the idea of
wilderness I mean because when I think
of my hunting now like we first went
hunting like five or six years ago you
would ask me this question I would given
you a whole different what would you
said then I don't know what I would have
said there but not this answer I might
have said like were you a fairly
youngish man I'm only going I'm green
even 3133 oh you beautiful person yeah
look at you oh I love you the perfect
complexion look at you is if all your
cells are firing correctly no liver
spots yet this whiskey's really it's not
by Irish so what do you think you would
have called it then so what I probably
would have said like when we first went
hunting and BC together from moose what
I probably would have said would have
been around it would have been less
value-based and more like I'd do it
because my dad did it I'd do it because
it connects me to to my dad like my dad
my family my people I do it because
humanity did it we talked we filmed a
video remember sitting on the thing we
talked a lot about our humanity right
like the drawling back through the
history of time when the hunter was
exalted in a tribe of people was the
only way to get me it's the only way to
get meat so
your skills that you acquired as a
hunter made you important to the culture
the society the everyday life I would
have probably called back to that not
that I would say that's wrong now but
what I've come to find out over some
other years of hunting in a lot of
places is that I think my hunting is
more about healthy ecosystems now than
it is about anything else I think all my
efforts should be around clean water
clean air places that we can go and
explore and what that brings to our
world that brings more wildlife that
brings places for my son to go and
experience these things and so I've
changed over there's a very short time
and the way that I do it well the more
you experience the wilderness and then
go back to the city and then go back to
the wilderness the more you realize how
special it is out there and the more you
realize when like today I went flying in
a helicopter over LA with me good friend
bill burr and as he was taking me up I
was looking at all this development we
were talking about all these apartment
complexes they're being developed and
he's like yeah he goes you really see it
when you're up here in the air because
you see where there was nothing and then
like a couple weeks later it'll be flat
now and then a couple weeks later they
start construction you realize like oh
this is how it spreads and that this is
just something that people do and if you
don't put a put a line you know draw a
line we're gonna keep going we're gonna
make our way across the country and I've
heard that argument from people that
don't go to the wilderness like look how
much of the you know we don't
overpopulated look how much of the
United States has no one living in it
fly over and look down at all the places
that don't have cities and don't have
roads and don't have houses like yeah
yeah yeah for now none of this shit was
here 200 years ago that's what we
ploughed we plowed ground to plant the
corn so you could have the things you
have well fly over in 1819 yeah you know
fly over a hundred two hundred years ago
bitch there was nothing here yeah it was
zero I don't know with Wilbur Wright
yeah and Orville come on see what you
saw but yeah if you get just go 300
years you have nothing
you have zero things yeah well that's I
think there's some perspective and I
think a honey has a lot going for it
around the fact that has urbanization
happens you know as job
being for me like as jobs become more
prevalent in urban places and people
have to travel from wherever they're
growing up to these urban places and
live so removed from wilderness so
removed from sustainability I think for
a long time because hunting peaked in
1982 there was like seventeen point five
million hunters around that year because
of Ronald Reagan yeah as president I'd
listen I'm I wasn't even alive so let's
not I don't know but like post-world War
two there was a rise in the modern
hunter or mountain sport hunter happy to
describe it there's that there's this
rise in nineteen eighty two and then a
precipitous fall right from there until
2016 there's around 11 million hunters
in this country it's just like drop it's
a big drop and in I will always say that
like the three things that I think
happened or urbanization so people are
getting removed from they're getting
moved away from having hunting in their
lives on a daily basis not that they're
anti hunting in any way they're just
getting removed from from that thing
than getting your meat on your own they
removed from that a lot of times you
remove from like gardening and other
types of sure sustainable use things the
other thing is Disney like Walt Disney's
a nice man but Bambi was not a good
thing for our our collective psyche
around hunting not just Bambi but
essentially all cartoons involving
animals - animals were your friends yes
even predators yes yogi was your friend
he was your friend he were tied attack
and he had a hat on yeah he's not a
picnic basket why did your picnic Jamie
look I was there was a guy there was a
dude recently he was caught poaching in
Missouri and the judge said that he had
to watch Bambi once a month during his
entire sentence why see if you find that
that is really that judge just needs a
reality show
he's like oh I know what to do honey I
know to do well make it watch Bambi he
poached a deer this is a guy who like
the whole other was like a whole family
guys here we're in like a poaching ring
or something I read this on the way over
here
here it is deer poacher sentence to
watch Bambi every month during a year
Missouri jail
yeah this might be a judge that's like
looking for a little fountain lazuli
killed hundreds of deer sometimes taking
over their heads and leaving the rest to
rot Enfield's
ki how about you keep that guy in jail
for more than a year there he is look at
him David berry jr. look at him fuckin
dork has been ordered to watch one thing
man if that guy was killing him because
he was poor and he was just eating deer
and that's how he made his you know
that's how he got food that's not the
case I don't care
he chopped the heads off and that guy
just fuck fuck anybody who does that
anyway fuck anybody who just wants to
shoot something as damn delicious and
massive as a deer a deer could feed a
family for months
yeah of course it could you understand
that but I mean the people listening or
this asshole
do you understand that this asshole who
shot this fucking thing hundred days
head off you piece of shit you fucking
look forward to eating deer and you shot
it and you yeah anyways that's like Walt
Disney I think like that kind of
treatment of animals has been something
that's hurt honey and the third one is
hunters I've hurt themselves like that
guy like maybe that's a poacher not that
guys way worse that's a poacher not a
hunter though but he's a guy who's
hunting illegally that's what the
poaching is he's honor yeah but like
camping camping illegal he's trespassing
oh it's not the safest yeah but you're
camping maybe I know you don't want him
to call him a hunter like you know like
someone who who goes on stage at a
company picnic is not a comedian yes
it's the same thing I get it yeah no
he's still killing animals yeah he's
getting more than me that's 100 yeah I'm
a hunter and he's killed more than this
vicious murder that's true he's a piece
of shit he is but that's just like
everything else man there's people that
are good Huber drivers and there's
something try to pull you under a bridge
and fuck your mouth this is bad people
that's a good point to bring up like is
there is there time like I always bring
up with hunting it's it's like I owe
somebody killed a giraffe or somebody
yeah a guy killed the family baboons and
made a photo I saw that do you see that
not good not good that's that's a
fucking primate bro yeah there's nothing
good about that with the IDS never gonna
be a well for you line it's never gonna
go well for you yeah
no he didn't put it online his I guess
the credit that would give the guy who
put it online the Idaho Statesman or
whatever the Idaho local paper was a
picture I don't know proprietor one of
the folks he sent an email out to some
friends and colleagues and things of
like recapping recapping his hunt in
Africa like here's all the things I did
and he I think and from what my reading
on the guy a guy and I got a lot of
mutual friends with him so he's a good
guy he just screwed up maybe made a bad
choice that's a tough sell
I would say so too but I should put him
in a cell and make some monkey movies I
think he knew like if I put this if I
put this off plain of the Apes you know
what the mark wahlberg plain of the apes
the reality of baboons and i have i've
studied the work of Robert Sapolsky yes
who's a guy who's been on the podcast
before and it's it's really pretty
amazing stuff what they found out about
baboons he studied actually because he
actually studied a baboon tribe that the
alpha males died off they were all
eating out of a poison Garbage Patch
there was a garbage patch to that sick
food in it and just bad food and the
alpha males who got to eat first always
chased there but they wound up dying off
and for more than one generation I think
with several generations they became
like really peaceful and calm and they
weren't the vicious violent baboons that
are the norm
yeah and that it's really if you google
it suppossed ski studies baboons and I
in radio lab also had a podcast about it
which is where I first heard about it
and then I read what Sapolsky wrote
about it but it is unbelievably
fascinating it shows how you can have
this insane violent animal culture and
then the the cunts get removed and when
the cunts get removed
everybody chills the fuck out and it's
really really quite fascinating yeah but
um
baboons for the most part I mean maybe
he shot the nicest baboons ever but for
the most part they're a bunch of baby
eating cunts and they'll steal your
fucking kid that was a two-year-old that
you loved so dearly that little
motherfucker beyond a
a porch somewhere and if there's baboons
around they'll snatch him and eat his
head that's like when I was in Africa I
hunted Africa one time in my life and
the our ph and our guide both said and
our church is a professional hunter
right the structure is like there's a
professional hunter which is essentially
your guide and then there's trackers
which are usually native folks that that
help tracking the game spotting animals
things like that but our our pH he was
like if you see a baboon shoot it said
we have area we have lots of irrigation
here to maintain this ranch and they rip
it up and they're you know basically
terrorists around you know coming around
our camp messing with our fires messing
with our food we leave you see one shoot
one and that was the instruction that I
got and I never never did but you know
given that instruction from somebody
like that like hey this is a good thing
for our landscape go and do it now
that's very far removed from stacking
them up
yeah like stack very far and with a big
smile on your face holding a bow is it
it doesn't mate didn't shoot a baby
there's some babies like a whole family
dude how you can't they don't stay in
one place either you and I said like
listen Joe here's my plan what I'm gonna
do is go to Africa and hunt and then you
know like I'm gonna shoot some baboons I
mean it's a good thing for this I'd be
like don't tell anybody
yeah you'd be like told him don't eight
certainly don't take a photo of you
posing with an entire family of the
deceased primate I had a friend who was
in Africa and he got attacked by a
baboon baboon try steals food yeah I
forget what the context of it was it was
uh quite a few years ago but he said it
was spooky he said they don't seem like
a monkey and they don't seem like they
seem like a dog monkey wild you ever see
when they open their mouths yes it's
like a dog mouth like it's like a dog
fucked a monkey like if you really like
show a baboon let me see a baboon with
its mouth open never thought of it that
way but I'll give it to you but they
have a long stretched out mouth like a
wolf or something it's not it's like a
werewolf
yeah it's not like a regular person
they're the real weird man they have all
these characteristics that are of
primates but then they have this extra
weirdness to them as well yeah and this
wildness tune to what doesn't
like the core of some guys oh my god I
mean come on look at that that's like a
werewolf yeah that is a werewolf that's
like part look at that face
that lion blues cane and I can roll back
but look at this even the shape of the
jaw it's very doglike it's very
elongated and doglike they're very it's
a very strange animal look at that face
man that is a crazy beast and my friend
said I forget the story told some food
and snarled at him and snatch something
from him but he said it was very scary
he said and you know it wasn't even that
big look like 60 70 pounds so I'm like
that he said but it's--but pending
they'll fuck you up they're not I will
you know it's different if you living
around them it's just these things are
different like we we were talking about
around the old media to incorporate
offices the other day around how do you
how do we as hunters who are around
these animals all the time and shit how
do we and something happens somebody
gets mad about this guy killing all
these these baboons what do we say when
there's a hunting scandal yeah what I
want ghosts do I say of course I let it
go well most people don't even know
about it yeah it hit the doubting world
but that one was on like NBC CNN this
was this one went pretty big and there's
there's invariably
these things happen where how come that
didn't go as big as Cecil stop and think
about that because to me it's more it's
more kind of fucked up it's more
egregious than the Cecil thing was a
it's a normal thing but I think I just
think we're desensitized to it right
Cecil came at a time where there was
more sensitivity to it and it just hit a
news cycle like Trump the Trump news
cycle probably dominates any other other
thing that happens in the news but the
reason why I say that Cecil's normal I
don't think that's good I don't think
you should just go over there in two
lines but people been doing it forever
yeah look if you asked me how many
people go over there to hunt baboons I'd
be like dude there really is that like a
normal thing like this it doesn't seem
normal right like even though I don't
you know have this conversation many
times on this podcast I don't think you
should shoot things that you don't eat
unless there's an E
need in terms of like some sort of an
imbalance like just as a joke
imagine if Eagles were like rats yeah
they were everywhere there's a reason
why you could just kill rats it's
because you have to yes okay this is
what overpopulation looks like you put a
trap in your fucking garage and you
smash the head of this living creature
and you're happy almost all things that
are categorized as rodents you do that -
well not true.really right like
squirrels a cute they're a door yeah but
if they just don't get in your house but
if there is yeah half a dozen squirrels
in your garage and you could set traps
and get them out of there you would but
it's a different thing like you'd feel
bad if you stomped one probably I
wouldn't you'd stomp a rat like people
still you've saw read your kid's room
you'd fucking stomp that thing to death
well yeah right if you saw a squirrel in
your kitchen so why don't you put those
types of value I don't apply those value
systems to animals like that what
because they're overpopulated and
because traditionally they're been
carriers of plague yeah
well the real reality the real story
about the Black Plague is not just that
the rats were caring but in fact that
the ticks and the was it ticks or fleas
that were on the rats we're carrying the
black plague I want to say it's fleas
could be and that this is how the
bubonic plague got spread it got spread
actually in fact through the ticks that
were carried by the rats so what it is
please please
Thank You Jaime with Google search the
the difference is that squirrels are not
overpopulated and that Raptors are
killing them off like left and right
it's a primary source of food for a lot
of these flying Raptors
yeah eagles and hawks and stuff like
that I'm sure a lot of other things eat
them too but enough balance out there
but rats rats lock into us I mean they
lived without us for a long time but
once they found us they're like oh look
at this shit these dumb motherfuckers
have holes in their ground you can live
under their houses you just they put
garbage out every day yeah just go jack
they're garbage you got plenty of food
this is what we we treat all types of
animals
very differently right and and we apply
our own specific feelings about these
animals to them like the bear with a
name doesn't know that it has
name right the wolf with a name doesn't
know it has a name it's not aware that
we've applied this special meaning to it
it doesn't know that we're I still it
our our application of our feelings in
our bug-like engendering this that
doesn't change the nature of the wolf or
the bear it will rip your face off it
will kill as many elk as it can well
there's a real problem in depicting them
the anthropomorphize a ssin of animals -
picks them as your friends and that's a
hard thing to shake yeah there's not
that they're bad and this is where the
real problem with someone going around
shooting baboons and posing like you did
a great thing is it's it's not that
these animals are bad they should be
respected and understood and appreciated
now if you are a part of a baboon
cleanup crew
like if you're women I was listening to
Rennell his podcast today and they were
talking about kangaroos in Australia
yeah and that there was a guy on the
show that had killed somewhere near was
like 7,000 many thousands thousands like
his dad's there was a what was it like
there was a flood I'll probably miss out
there's some sort of weather event that
pushed all these kangaroos on to his
dad's ranch and status going out every
day and just whacking at nauseam
thousands of kangaroos and that they
have to do this because they don't have
any natural predators and they they'll
just devastate landscapes and we played
videos it would C be a fine one real
quick play will get kicked off at
YouTube probably right there's a video
of like a swarm of kangaroos in
Australia dude I have no I had no idea
yeah we were reading about it about
overpopulation I had no idea yeah it's
like 100 pound locust yeah that's what
it's like I was reading I can't remember
the guys name but I was reading this
paper just so I can see it I was reading
don't put it up on the YouTube I don't
want the kids to get mad how there it is
this is nothing this ain't this ain't
shit in comparison this is pretty crews
this is pretty crazy but we were
watching one when there was a swarm
running across a field like look at that
bro that's rats come on man if you saw
that many rats in a field you would go I
am gonna go get my gun and I'm gonna
kill these fucking rats right you
wouldn't tolerate that but these are
sheep is our like the endangered species
you guys comes into play here in a weird
way because is our caring frame
molls dictated by the number of the
animal that there is it isn't and it is
see it's not for us right we're over
here in the Valley of Southern
California
very nice different ride brains have a
good old time me buddy Ben O'Brien young
Jaime wonderful its air conditions was
fantastic fairness we live a good life
here if you're Australia you're killing
us fuck oh let me tell you like when I
went Remy Warren our mutual friend first
took me to New Zealand he took me to a
sheep station a giant is the base a
ranch base big sheep ranch we hunted
fallow deer there we there deer
everywhere on the way out we met a guy
then we call him the rabbit man or like
he he look like a superhero he was
riding on like it's just a two-stroke
bike with like a rabbit hide covers for
the handles he had a helmet on he was
like a superhero like a leather jacket
and like a 22 and he was riding around
his job was to ride around and shoot
rabbits all night long every day seven
days a week he had killed millions of
rabbits millions millions and he he
would log every night come back and log
a number of rabbits he killed they
weren't eating these rabbits it was
population control these rabbits were or
digging under fences these rabbits were
destroying the landscape they couldn't
run sheep that the land was invaluable
because these rabbits or it's almost
like turn-of-the-century
America right we had some of the same
situations but we met this guy whose job
it was to with impunity kill as many
rabbits as he possibly could a rabbit's
an invasive species down there they
might be yeah well find out out because
this was New Zealand and most like
there's almost everything almost
everything is non-native and as a crazy
spot yeah that's great first one of my
favorite spots I could be on the board
for tourism for Newseum really young
rabbits we're introduced to Australia in
18th Hunter okay but what about New
Zealand is it Jaime not being attention
[Laughter]
I can't swim bro don't swim but I bet
it's the same thing it's the same thing
I'm sure we never we never did get so
deep into invasive species and number
introduced you know
European rabbit yeah they I think
everything in in New Zealand was
introduced yes most most sorry New
Zealand really needs to kill these
adorable rabbits yeah they have to by
the way you can eat them the fucking
rabbits are delicious yeah I mean it's
but it's the problem as my daughter has
a fucking pet rabbit okay and we put it
in this little cute cage and when it
wants to come out and be held it puts
this little pause on it makes noise you
open the cage up take the rabbit out you
know but little delicious you can't go
out and fuck I love hunting rabbits man
malicious but that I was reading this
this environmental I was a go theorists
this guy I was talking about the types
of hunting and I was reading this it
like this is not this might be a smart
guy but he don't have it he was talking
about three types of hunting therapeutic
what is that James I don't I was in that
piggie with the rabbits it said stoats
Stowe what is it it's Keating it's
eating a nested bird yeah probably
another look cute but acceptable you
know that's one of the things that also
I learned about from the meat-eater
podcast is how many squirrels kill birds
oh yeah they kill and eat birds that's a
big part of the decimation of the
population of certain bird species is
interested in squirrels it's fucking
mice he's a murderer that's crazy that
little thing eat a mouse that's about
what's a rat it's eating a rat that's
like his size on New Zealand I think I
believe so so boom New Zealand murderer
everything I've run into that was native
to New Zealand was a Kia I was like a
parrot that flies around was the
thylacine native to New Zealand or just
Australia that's Australia right that's
the Tasmanian tiger you know he's 9
ounces just America what North America a
little fuckers out here Merkin at night
and stuff oh ok he got over here
[Laughter]
distinguished by oh he's a weasel
looks like larger size and longer tail
with a prominent black tip it's kind of
weasel terrific level of carnivorous
isn't it funny that weasels are thought
to be like a little bitches a little
weasel Weasley's
look at this weasel there he goes look
at him yeah and weasels will fuck up a
cobra how about that look at him what is
he doing that little rabbit
Kuzco that's how he's killing look at
the stoat kills rabbit ten times it
sucks Christ two million views there it
is look how small he is he's chasing a
rabbit that's insane what a little
ruthless motherfuckers probably online
yeah don't show it but when it seems
very cute so should we do the
play-by-play on lightest out Oh life
stop doubt kill the rabbit 10 times doe
torse down c1 I don't know this is
stowed er style I never run into this
critter am i outside motherfucker look
at him go it really is 10 times the size
ease don't worry he's kind of adorable
though the way that he's doing it
ruthless look what's he gonna do is you
gonna go for the hindquarters like a
wolf the other rabbit rider adopem does
like captain save-a-ho over there I mean
that's 100 that's some pass by he's
going low how about the other rabbit
just sits there was friends gets just
dozens of rabbits that aren't like let's
gang up and get this stowed man how
crazy is he doesn't try the XS that are
really close to him oh now he goes
where's he going is he going like so
he's probably gonna hit those he's gonna
hit those hindquarters he's gonna get
some shock and some blood loss this ya
know he's going for though he's always
gone the gap since he's gonna pull him
down we'll get blood loss and you get
you know he's going home Joe Rogan he's
going up oh my god what's going on is
like this doesn't seem right the other I
was just gonna look away you pussy we're
not friends and you're gonna help your
friend what a little monster oh that is
so good easy he's deep on it that is
soap so he's got his teeth for those I
don't know who's watching but he's got
his teeth like behind the ears of this
rabbit he's killing it by biting the
back of its neck and he literally is ten
times smaller than that is it dead right
there yeah the other rappers like Thank
You BBC fucking dorks help your friend
that's why you're gonna go extinct you
cunt
[Laughter]
how about you turn bitch turn up a bite
him in the neck yeah I'm really good is
it a stoat let out you think as a team
Oh a tee
seems like it would be stout yeah no but
you would be stouts toast out ah stalled
take that back whilst stout never seen
one of those before my time outside
never you never know I didn't even know
it was a thing to their savage Oh their
savage next thing you know they're gonna
be they're gonna be like nipping at your
calves trying to take you down that
should be the American animal not an
eagle no easels in Ireland and here I go
everywhere else they're called short
tailed weasels Oh some kind of weasel
yeah yeah weasels are vicious little
motherfuckers that's what I'm saying
like wire wheels like the week so you
thought of him weasel in you didn't
think of him as being a ruthless killer
or something 10 times no weasels are
cute like if Pauly Shore was taken down
giant bitches huge 25 feet tall women
die just smashing them you know like
that would be what that's a sweet little
animal though but that even the way that
that um the weasel was chasing the rat
was kind of cute like he was just
bounded along ador adorable was adorable
so he would run by he was so mean you
would run by the other rabbits like he
had hair determined about this rabbit
this brings up like we were on my
podcast we had a guy on there named
brandy Newberg you know about that
Gandhi yeah
Rhaenys awesome yeah that's great losing
Bozeman and he's great and we were
talking we did a deal about ethics and a
lot of folks wrote in and they said I
begin to hear what you think about this
if if an animal is wounded and you're
say you're up in a tree stand or you're
hunting you know spot in stock or you've
been in the case of Randy hunting over a
waterhole
if you're doing that and in you're a
hunter you hold the tag you can choose
which animal you'd like to kill all
right it's rights you have a buck or a
doe a male a female tag whether you can
choose which one you want to kill if an
animal comes by you that has been
wounded clearly been wounded clearly
struggling you know
in the case of rainy Newberg he was
sitting on a waterhole and I believe he
was in Arizona and with a trophy tag
which means there was a lot of big meal
that you're walking around a lot of big
antelope walking around that in that
situation pronghorn
well let's explain to people that are
listening that don't know what we're
talking about when he says a trophy tag
what he means is there's some units that
are designated as trophy areas it
doesn't mean you don't eat them the
animal what it does mean is that it's a
it's very difficult to get into this
area you have to have a certain amount
of points which means you're putting in
to the pool of money that is for
conservation for habitat protection all
you're putting in every year to try to
get a tag and you could only get a tag
in a lot of these places once a lifetime
for some places Dan some places I've
drawn be ten years on tags that are once
every 15 years and it's a very
complicated point system but yeah with
it but let's explain why they do that
they read that to preserve the
population of big mature animals so that
this you can't just let anybody go in
like there's some places that are called
over the counter yeah what an
over-the-counter unit is is they know
that there's a large healthy population
of animals and they either the wildlife
biologists in the state representative
they choose to just let anybody go in
and when they think the animals are
diminishing too much then they'll put a
cap on it but for now in over the
counter unit yes and then they have
places that are very difficult to draw
units yeah and those difficult to draw
units is one of the places where Randy
Newberg was because he was looking for a
big old mature animal that had spread
its genetic and it stuff like the term
trophy has been so weaponized that it's
it's tough it's my fault for using like
when you use I use it not in the term
that most people think of it I think if
trophies does a lot of different things
amateur animal that's again once in a
lifetime it takes some of the many years
to draw I think you should just call it
a limited draw limited draw unit yeah
little draw you know hard to get area
once-in-a-lifetime hunt where you're
never gonna hunt there again and you're
looking for the most unique animal that
you can find the most mature animal that
you can find but along the way yeah but
along the way like in this case
ethically he runs into a limping
antelope pronghorn it comes into a
waterhole and it's limping to the point
where he thinks oh and this happens to a
lot of hunters he's like oh I have this
tag I've waited a long time to get it
it's a very unique tag of course the way
you explained it and would I you know I
can eat this animal just the same as I
would any other one but to add you know
to exercise some mercy around this
antelope that's clearly suffering
clearly injured who knows how it got
injured its limping up to a waterhole
he's having this ethical pondering in
his head like should I dispatch this
thing and ended suffering fill my tag
this way because with it with a tag in
that nature you have a tag you can then
choose to do anything you want with it
in legal bounce you sure you didn't
wound this animal so you could let that
animal pass and choose a larger more
mature more impressive down and you let
nature take its course whether a
predation or not in the case of this one
but winterkill or something may take
that animal or you can and it's
quote-unquote suffering you don't know
we can't talk to the animal I ask it its
opinion but you can end what looks like
it's suffering and fill your tag in that
way
that's not the way normal hunts play out
but a lot of hunters are put in that
that ethical situation it's pretty rare
but it can happen happens never happened
to me but it was your answer so the
answer his answer was to shoot that was
the shoot that Anil I agree with that
you know why cuz also here's another
possibility no antelopes come by yeah so
if no antelopes come by just by fate you
don't get an animal yeah so you spend
seven days out there in the wilderness
and you come home empty-handed you don't
have to eat an antelope
yeah or you're presented with this
opportunity to be merciful to take this
animal out that's injured and you get to
keep an antelope and although it's not
the antelope that you dreamed of is
something about but it's still healthy
no yeah and you get to feel good the
fact that you really did yeah you put an
animal out of its misery and and and we
all like mercies of virtue Yeah right
it's for sure we all would like to you
know behave like and I and I said this
and Randy kind of we talked through it
but I said that that this is a unique
situation to a hunter if you're a hiker
and you come across an animal wounded in
this way
injured in this way there's very little
you can do yeah but this is unique to
the hunters responsibility to look at
this animal and make this decision
here's another argument another argument
is you really should do nothing because
those the animals that are designated to
be taken out by the Predators and you
want to keep the predator popular thing
that was more my answer Randi's answer
like we went back and forth course and I
see both sides I see both sides - and I
think this that's one of those
situations whereas a hunter there was a
you know I'll go back there's another
podcast a date with a guy named du
shawnsmith Tana and he is his real name
this is really he's finding sean's
Montana who shot Smith down
he's from Czechoslovakia he's a outdoor
photographer and he's he's a dope
individual it a wonderful him better be
with that name okay he lives up to that
in a sporting man he's like cynthaiz
fire like let me say sip eyes fire and
his busy wear handmade boots of course
he does Joe fuck out of here
what do you think he's wearing you would
make his own moccasins the most
interesting man they were he's very much
this he like so I did a podcast when we
sat by his fire and we drank plum brandy
that he makes himself of course does
really look he makes his own honey
he has Icelandic sheep that he's shears
and he eats he does asada he kills a
lamb or love and feeds everyone Asad
wonderful human being he grew up in
Czechoslovakia and part of his
describing his growing up is like in
there's a term and I'll butcher the
pronunciation of it but Mick Levesque is
the term that he used to describe a
hunter as like hunter or the one who
thinks and the way he described the
cultures the cultural significance of a
hunter and his you know when he was
growing up in the late 80's and
Czechoslovakia was that the Hunter had
to be was the was the judge and jury so
there was like a reverence around
hunting a reverence around a hunter
because that hunter got the privilege in
in his culture to be the judge and jury
for what animal gets taken out of the
herd like making that very serious
decision to say this animal is wounded
this animal is too old
this animal is young enough right you've
talked about a lot on this podcast
very uh some other smart hunters that I
think what hunting needs to become now
that it isn't is this exalted status in
our society where they think we're at
we're giving somebody with a hunting tag
or hunting license you're giving
somebody the opportunity to make a
decision about something's life well you
see salt at status the problem is you
don't have to earn that status right
it's like right you could just go out
and do it and one of the things that
I've found out about hunting that is I
don't know if a sense are surprising but
it's it's very difficult to express
without personal experience is that it
the consequence or it's so different
than what you would think it's very
difficult to do it's very physically
exhausting the consequences of your
actions are so grave and the rewards are
so much different than any other way of
acquiring food even fishing which I love
I love fishing I love fish I like to eat
them they're delicious they're delicious
I like to catch them they're fun I like
catching fish it's not the same there's
something that we and I don't think this
is a learned thing I think there's a
there's a connection to difficult to
acquire mammals that goes deep in our
DNA and I think this is the reason why
we I think one of the reasons why we
enjoy fishing is because those reward
systems were put in place by people that
survived by eating fish yeah all those
generations of people that did catch
fish and that was how they ate that day
that excitement lives inside of you and
you sparked that up when you get a big
steelhead on the line right you hear
that real go because you're being
informed they're being informed by
people that didn't have a choice man
it's like it had to have that fish to
live exactly so even though it's
recreation to you it's a thrilling
recreation but then the consequences
aren't as grave
there's something about a wounded deer
or a wounded elk that is so horrific and
a merciful killing that is so it's so
such a relief it's there's something
powerful about it like I told you I
that elk yeah that it's out there that
it walked four yards yeah and I'm not
exaggerating four yards and fell over it
was dead like that like and the guys who
were there they said it was quicker than
any rifle shot they had ever seen an elk
died so they usually stand up longer
from that that's what everybody wants
that a horse say it wants it they want
attention they do but if I catch a fish
and he's I pull him out of the water and
throw him on the ice and he's flopping
around for a few hours I'm just happy I
got him yeah it's different well they'd
like you've had Michael Pollan on the
show before he wrote that Omnivore's
Dilemma and in it he was just said
basically in a paraphrasing but he said
it honey is so different from the inside
this from the outside yes so easy to
view honey in the lens of like there's a
dude sitting behind a deer smiling and
grabbing its antlers
there's also the problem that
malnutrition in this country is almost
non-existent fat people are poor people
in this country yes fucked like poor
people are fat yeah which is one of the
weirder things about our society this is
never hurt this has never happened in
the history of human beings that the
poor people were the big fat ones I got
cell phones I mean there's a lot of rich
people that are fat too don't get me
wrong but there's it's people don't have
a problem being fat sure right and this
doesn't mean that there's not a lot of
malnutrition there most certainly is but
it's nutrition it's not this is not a
lack of calories lack of calories was a
massive problem throughout most of you
more history the lack of food so it's
the the access to food is so normal to
us it's so easy but the unfettered
access to food is what's really normal
now yeah that's what's change but the
dust realization and come fast fast food
is processed food is fucked yeah even if
you go back to when people when hunting
was more normal in the 1920s or the
1930s what was really normal there's
also no fast food yeah so when you would
get a roast even if you went into a
butcher and you got a roast and you
brought it home and you were making
roast beef and you're cooking it or your
uncle shot a deer was the last time milk
was delivered to your door yeah
right not my dad you know so there's a
lot of different it is wrong it's wrong
yeah so there's a lot of different yeah
like the the removal from the actual you
know process that hunters go through but
it actually it might not have been wrong
like when they start pasteurizing
marginalization that's a Jamie thing
that was a Louie pest or that that is
who it was
Esther ization right that's that's what
it came from yeah yeah um when they
start implementing that like when you
would get the milk on your door in those
glass jars didn't that milk go bad quick
though but that's me you know my
grandparents that's what they would
describe the milkman these 1880s so when
it started that's what started I wonder
when it was common I wonder if it was
what you think about like market hunting
we always talk about hunting like the
the turn of the century being this huge
moment and hunting conservation market
hunting really became a thing when when
it accelerated when refrigeration became
a reality right and accelerated when
railroads could take meat from the great
American West back to the cities in the
East Coast hmm so those things like
Excel or that technology and those
things accelerated market hunting and
the the depredation of things like the
white-tailed deer and and the Buffalo as
we all same as here I'm just trying to
flavor this in the context of most
people that hear these conversations
don't really know what we're talking
about yeah so you you're obviously well
versed in this but for a lot of folks
they don't understand that what what
happened was after the Civil War in
particular there's a lot of soldiers
they weren't fighting anymore in the war
and they got jobs as hunters and they
would just go out with no rules and
shoot as many animals as they wanted and
we that the term we call that is market
hunting and there the market hunting
means that they're out hunting for
marketing the meat or marketing the
hides of marketing parts of the animal
to sometimes just a tongue that would
ship Buffalo's for just a tongue yep so
in that time in our at the turn of the
century right 1880s and
turn-of-the-century we had mass
mass killings of people just think a
buffalo really but white-tailed deer
mallard duck wild turkey elk elk black
bear black bear Hey look at that Jesus
Christ yes this is we're looking at a
photograph of like so many fucking
animals just hanging from these ox there
and Leslie does looks like all ducks I
don't see anything yet but there's
there's nothing there's ol what are
those Easter eggs like bears those are
all ducks yeah
so there's you're all deer market
hunting beer but they decimated massive
just quantities of these wild game and
yes they were like the share pair
there's more white health here today
than when Christopher Columbus landed on
this yea continent at the time yeah at
the turn of the century went at the
height of the marketing crisis in this
country there were there were enough
there were enough white-tailed deer that
they they probably would have been on
the endangered species list or been
close and so the model of conservation
that we then enacted I don't want to say
like I don't want to over exert such
people have never heard of it but if you
look at the if you look up Jamie the
North American model of wildlife
conservation there was there was a ton
of key figures and taking what America
had at that point which was basically
the Wild West where animals are dying at
mass and with with railroads and
refrigeration like we said they're then
feeding and clothing at that time the
masses in the urban settings you know in
New York and different places but as
these centuries turned over and you get
into the the teens and 20s guys like
Teddy Roosevelt gift for Pinochet
they're you know john muir there was a
bunch of figures who essentially kicked
off what is america's conservation
movement the the movement to conserve
not only the wildlife populations but
wild lands and wild waters and
significant places in this country that
we needed to protect because around the
turn of the century we did not have that
feeling of value as a society there
wasn't like we have to go value that
thing we've never seen because you could
never
see it right and so that we they were
they went they set about building a
value structure for not only wildlife
but wild places and they also set about
a play that the user would pay for this
conservation and these are the
constructs of what we now know to be the
North American model of wildlife
conservation which I mean this is if you
look at it today it's like one of the
most successful and like the seminal
systems of conservation in the world in
the world it wasn't really codified
until the 80s till guys like Valery's
dr. Blair Geist and Shane Mahoney and
folks wrote it down and said this is
what it is but pull if you could pull up
the tenets of the North American model
because I could list them off but North
American model of wildlife conservation
wildlife as public trust resources
elimination of markets for game-like
that's why people say hey where can i
buy some elk you can't can't you can buy
it can zealand wildlife wildlife is a
public trust that just basically means
the state's hold the wildlife in trust
for the public these animals belong to
us state holds them in trust and manage
them in trust for us now for people that
have a problem that as an idea that we
would own a living thing the only reason
for that is to protect those living
things I understand on semantics that
you would have issue with you know
humans shouldn't own life man yeah we
don't and maybe own is the wrong word to
use breath maybe own is the wrong word
to use but it's like manage and
cohabitate with maybe that's the better
way to say this too by being by looks
whether we protect them or whether we
decimate them right we are the stewards
of the land we are we are the ones the
monkeys with the guns well that's just
if we have the ability to say here is
this number of animals here's this
number of land here's here's how we
encourage upon that land right let's
study that make sure that's all good yes
and then let's manage it as actively
manage it as hunters and anglers to make
sure the carrying capacity of this land
meets the wildlife populations
everything is working in order it's the
sustainable use of natural resource
that's what hunting is if you anybody
ask you like hey hey dude what's hunting
you say hunting in the North American
model is the sustainable use of a
natural resource yes to eat to eat
elimination of markets for game we
covered Trevor none of these animals
that we're talking about whether you're
eating black bear or whether you're
eating deer you cannot buy that stuff if
you buy it you're gonna get raised farm
raised meat and most of it is from New
Zealand yep
allocation of wildlife by law right
there's laws right there is a-there law
to say how many animals you can kill if
you just like that fellow in Missouri
that's got to watch Bambi if you kill
more than grossed kill you're a poacher
now you've broken the law and the law is
dictated most really good states like
Montana by wildlife biologists
conservationists and people that
understand the population what's a
healthy population for the area yep and
how to maintain a correct balance and
there's a real science to that folks
yeah you know the science of when you
talk to wildlife biologists about this I
mean we had a great podcast with Doug
durin yeah and Brian love science last
name love Doug Dern was a fuckin can't
remember my shitty brain but we we were
talking about CWD chronic wasting
disease the spread of it amongst wild
animals and then just Richards Brian
Richards shout out to Brian Richards and
me pal Doug durin but I'll be Doug
you're great
keep fighting that Coad fight over there
so what we talked about was the actual
science behind yeah this one particular
issue but you grow to appreciate when
you hear someone like him talk they grow
to appreciate the complex nature of
wildlife biology and maintaining the
populations of animals keeping keeping
them healthy and making sure that these
habitats are preserved this is very
complicated stuff oh it's it's it's
impossible to really understand the
scope of these like you to take Wyoming
or Montana yeah we we tend to cordon off
things we really care about like grizzly
bears and the Greater Yellowstone
Ecosystem you really care about that
that's the thing to talk about but
really what we should talk about is in
really what most wildlife managers are
looking at it's like biodiversity health
of all while like populations and it
redditor prey balance that is a prey
balance like these are things that we've
that we've set about in this model of
conservation to say like we're not just
by license by license we are using
science and biology to dictate the way
in which hunting is used to benefit
these popular let's go Jamie googling
porn wildlife can only be killed for a
legitimate purpose that kind of says it
all right it does but that what does
that mean is where it gets weird with
people like here's one he goes what
people people get really crazy they'll
get really crazy when you kill predators
right even if you're gonna eat them like
I was looking at Adam green trees page
and found a tree shot a cougar did he
send you that mine he has not he's gonna
be here and we're gonna cook it together
well we're gonna cook some mountain lion
backs right here till it's delicious
I've never had you have I haven't had it
like that I've shot but someone else
prepared you say you here tell but you
have had I have had it and it's
delicious
you being coy I'm not being coy at all
right here - I hear - I like to sound
folksy so people others know that but no
I ask that is superb it's it's it's it's
like lean and delicate and it gets like
pork almost it's really good and then
people will go crazy like why are you
killing that yeah do you understand how
fucked it is that you have zero problem
with someone killing a deer but you have
a problem someone killing a mountain
lion and this is a real issue you have a
problem someone killing something that
will fucking for sure kill you if it
catches you alone in the forest yeah
fucking for sure kill your dog for sure
kill your kids definitely kill those
cute little deer and kill a shitload of
them absolutely one every couple of days
for its entire life and forever they're
experts at it and for whatever reason we
get in our head that if and I think this
comes from this whole idea of trophy
hunting yeah that if you kill something
like that you're only killing that thing
because you have a little dick it
doesn't work there must be a big man so
you kill this thing that's better than
you isn't there in this beautiful animal
the definition of a surface level
examination it is but it isn't because
this is the this is the narrative that's
been pushed through all the channels
they don't unless they go out and
research this stuff objectively in-depth
and why would you they can't just let me
be let's be devil's advocate why you
would you if you're an accountant what
do I want to look into the subtleties of
predator hunting yes to keep that up
please why do I want it why why do I
give a fuck about that like why don't I
get some assholes wants to shoot
mountain lions look crazy always gonna
use dogs oh wow that's fair that's so
unfair we talk for well can we talk for
a minute about baiting bears yes
well that's can we want to keep
legitimate purpose let's keep right
being I read if you want to keep that
down for the light is that was oh just
put it back up when you will get to it
there's a Redis I've read stories and
you and I baited it went hunting for
bears baited before and so I've heard a
lot of we in hunting they have a term
fair chase which means legitimate you
know reason for the ability for the
answer escape your hunting then when all
fairness in the pursuit people beat beat
up on baited bear hunting a lot probably
because bears are involved probably
because it seems unfair to sit in a
chair and put out some doughnuts or put
out some a dead beaver put out whatever
attracts a bear to put a smell out into
the forest the bear smells it it comes
to eat and you're there to kill it
that seems like what lazy seems like
this seems a lot of cheating cheating so
people would say that's not fair chase
that's not ethical right and and in some
ways I agree with that
in comparison to other ways of hunting
right but at the same time I could say I
can tell you this there's no more
ethical if the idea is to kill the
animal kill the right animal especially
in in bear hunt and you're trying to
kill a specific bore a male bear that is
Pass Holder Pass breeding anybody who's
bear hunting will tell you one of the
hardest things to judge when it's on
while it's living is a bear whether it's
a male or a female how big it is how old
it is
they are hard to judge because they're
black they slide through the forest
they'll look they don't stay there's no
markers like if the bear is standing
next to a Volkswagen bug yeah you go oh
okay I know how big a bug is that's
right now how big the Bears that's right
the bear is next to some treat it's a
hundred yards away you really can't tell
it's hard so spotting and stalking what
we call spotting and stalking which is
like walking around trying to find a
bear looking at it far away and getting
close enough to kill it whether it's
with a rifle or a bow there's a lot of
problems with what seems to be a fair
way to achieve the pursuit of that
animal there's a ton of problems around
that because they're hard to judge you
could come up on a sow female bear that
has Cubs in a bush he's not see the Cubs
not know that it's a sow you're far away
with a rifle you crack you kill it two
cubs ran out of the bush that is not
what you were trying to do you made a
mistake there in the scenario where you
are at a bait site this animal comes in
it's walking around very close to where
you are you get to judge it you get to
look between its legs see if it has a
dick or not and then just determine it's
the animal you want to dispatch and
dispatch it ethically because it's
closer to you it's twenty yards it's
stabilized a lot of times it doesn't
know hopefully doesn't know you're there
rather than doing it from further away
tor having to stalk close to it so I say
all this to say like this is complex
what you think might be fair chase what
you think you might want to apply your
own you know levels of fairness to
doesn't always equal the reality of
pursuing that animal if the end game is
to dispatch it fairly and kill it fairly
bears are a very unique animal in the
boat in that there's so much more
criticism because of teddy bears and
Yogi and fucking coca-cola commercials
we have this idea of what a bear is yes
and it's also the the thing is eat and
this is hard for people to accept those
old boars that we're trying to kill
there if you kill them it's better for
the whole population of bears because
they eat bears now this is where it gets
really fucked up and you know it's my
friend Jonathan who is you met John and
Jen of course we're up there with them
Jonathan their son saw
one of the Bears kill and start
consuming a cub oh yeah a female scared
the bear off and then ate her own kid
yeah you listen my podcast I got a guy
named Cole Kramer who I've hunted on
Kodiak Island with he's seen bear he's
seen male bears chase down south run him
into a cave rip
I mean he's watched and ripped Cubs and
gripped them in half and eat them and
spit them out like yeah you know and
once you've seen that you're you're you
know no matter how many bear cartoons we
show no matter how many times a bear has
suspenders owning is talking to us it
doesn't change no matter how many times
we name a bear
it doesn't change the bareness of the
animal it doesn't change its its prime
different animal it's a different kind
of animal
so there's nothing we can do to change
bear being a bear I don't think there's
any evidence that they don't eat their
own kids either yeah I don't think there
is right I mean I'm sure somebody you
know some way more educated me can tell
you exactly what's happening there but
we know you and I both know that they're
killing those two they're killing as
many causes they can to get this out to
come back at Heat they're doing that and
they're also doing it for food food is
what they eat them and they also try to
bring the south back and Astro so using
is you talked about this before like
hunters are in a specific you know are
in a really interesting position to have
seen to see these things and be intimate
with these animals which is a if you
just explain what you explain to most
people they would just snap what yeah
they're cannibals 100% of them
accountable yeah even the ones that were
suspenders like it is it it's this I
think what non-owners want from hunters
is is to one say listen this is a
complex thing that we're doing right
we're going into a wild place and
removing from it something we didn't put
there fuck that serious but that's not
we shouldn't be nonchalant about that we
shouldn't celebrate it in ways that make
it seem irreverent like that right we
should we should understand it's serious
and take that action seriously we should
be you know again that guy do Sean in he
was explaining in Czechoslovakia to go
hunting you had to go take a class and
learn flora and fauna and
learn how many pheasant eggs were in in
a nest and and really yeah and then once
you became a hunter in the terms that
that they describe it
then you had to like it was the amount
of work you put into the forest that
denoted what you could then hunt you
know so if you went to cut down this
many trees you could go hunt a deer if
you only did one certain thing you could
hunt a rabbit like they had this yeah he
describes it as this like interaction
with so that was their nature servation
model that was her model conservation
was very much like accountability and so
I think what most non hunters want from
hunters because for me I don't think
about anti hunters as much as I think
about somebody who just is smart
thoughtful he's never been you were this
way at some point sure you're like
person who really thought hard about
what you were eating and wanted to
explore what is happening here yeah and
is there alternative ways so I think
what non-owners want from hunters is is
for us to say listen we get it's complex
we get it's a serious thing and we're
doing our best to unpack the the moral
and ethical entanglements and what we do
yeah and it's it's not easy I mean we
flush pheasants when we could shoot them
on the ground and that's the way we do
what we call that fair chase but we
don't like when an animal comes close
enough to us and eats the corn and we
can shoot it like we don't like that
either so these things are just
entangled there it's hard to it's a hard
activity to to reckon with
well the baiting part of it is is it
it's it's absolutely not as good yes I'm
not saying I'm out there bait in every
animal but I'm saying I can just see as
like a somebody that likes the nuance of
this and likes to explore this and likes
to ask why yeah why why is it that
that's the case why is it do we look
down on people that that bait animals
and or use dogs no we're used dogs so
same reason they do it for the exact
same reason yeah no they get a close-up
ethical shot and the difficult to pursue
an animal yeah it's all it always gives
back to like those the reasons we do
what we do but but again I would hope
that everybody listening this lots of
people do that don't hunt that they
would they would ask themselves like
what do i what do I expect from
Hunter's like what is the thing that I
expect you to do to earn because I very
much feel as a hunter I need to earn the
respect of the non hunter
yeah like I have a I have a duty to my
hunting community to actively earn the
respect of every non hunter I run into I
feel like I got to do it and maybe I'm
maybe I'm just making it harder for
myself but I I feel like there's it's an
almost impossible task yeah but I've
done you've probably done it I've done
it on a one-to-one level yeah I
definitely have flipped people
especially easy you're it's much easier
when they eat meat yeah meat it makes
sense yes but then they'll still have a
problem with the bear thing and the bear
thing is one you got to sit them down
with like I don't I don't prefer to hunt
bears I don't in any way cuz I don't I
get weirded out about trichinosis it's
just the meat is not as good to me yeah
it's good it tastes great you have a
nice roast or bear stir-fry or something
it is delicious it's not like you spit
it out but it's not also like
comparative to Alec it's like okay yeah
you can't even have it medium rare which
is the best way to eat meat that's right
so it's not the same to me but if I
lived lucky on Alberta where John and
Jenn live I would realize it's
imperative you have to do and if you do
like to eat elk and if you do like to
eat deer and if you do like deep moose
is really a responsibility to hunt bear
yeah because they kill 50 percent of all
the moose calves the elk calves and the
deer fawns fifty percent get killed by
black bear now here's the other thing
you could say well that's because Nature
has balance and the reason why they're
there is so those fucking deer don't
look like those kangaroo in that Park
and that's true - yeah that's true -
they're right and I think it's our job
to not have any sort of bias when it
comes to our examination of this
information whether it's flattering or
not we have to be able to look at this
objectively we got to be pragmatic yes
have to and you have to be honest and I
think this is you have to address the
complexity you have to realize that this
is very complex but guess what fuckface
if you wear leather shoes you got
leather clothes you got a leather
interior in your car you're eating
cheeseburgers you should probably shut
the fuck up it
we are human consumption engines we
breathe in we breathe out we consume the
world around us that's the way it works
as you always say life yes life and that
but the reality of the situation for me
is like I've tried to not stray away
from but try to add on to the pragmatic
arguments for hunting oh yeah so try to
examine like the emotional issues we
have around caring for the single animal
every caring for the entire species of
that animal or in case subspecies of it
yeah like that that's me something I've
tried to add on like let's first start
with pragmatic arguments like you eat
meat you're fucking killing things like
why aren't you thinking as hard as I'm
thinking about this and in I I really
would love to build a bridge with people
to say I care like if you're in let's
say you're an anti hunter and you love
animal you're a vegan even a lot of
conversations are obedient I'm a vegan I
really care about animals they're
sentient beings they all deserve life
put that person in front of me and then
I'll stand right beside them and be like
I fucking agree with you I agree that
all animals are sentient beings I agree
that they all deserve life and I and
then I go to preserve that life for that
animal that's what I go to do we start
me in that anti Hunter I'm a hunter
start at the same point and over the
years sort of sword that it's cool
those animals I do so that that
eliminates you from their side but that
it's only yes because your diet but
you're an animal consuming machine
this person is an animal consuming
machine they're just not admitting it
they just don't understand they just
don't understand any machine because
they don't organically garden yes they
organically garden and need everything
that they grow themselves even then it's
hard to detach yourself from your
consumption of the world yes aren't like
what's what's in your compost bro yeah
if it makes it easier for you let's just
leave the vegan and the conversations
say the non hunter yes it's like I don't
kill anals myself but I care about him
I'm like I care about him and I kill him
we're at the same like if you remove the
second part of the sentence the first
part is I care about him right we both
care about animals are standing at one
point and over time whether it's mass
media or just the way hunting has been
marketed in the in the poor PR agent
that we've had
we've kind of walked away from each
other right we started with we both care
about animals that we've kind of walked
away from each other and over time we've
been unwilling to turn around and face
each other and be like remember when we
started out thinking we all value these
animals we value their lives we all care
about them hunting is just a version our
version and it's worked given that model
of conservation we were talking about
it's worked for the white-tailed deer
and the mallard duck it's worked there's
more than ever I'm just doing it a
different way than you've chosen to do
it I'm doing it in a more proactive way
than you've chosen you know think about
it and so I would if a vegan came up to
me and be like listen man there we have
more similarities in my opinion than we
do differences we've just chosen the
difference the one big fat thing that's
different it's the difference though
it's the most important difference you
want to kill animals and eat them they
don't think you should be allowed to
they don't think it's right they don't
think it's moral they don't think it's
an ethical yeah just think everything is
wrong like what you're doing okay we
both we both care about animals that is
a fucked up way to look at I care about
people too I just like to eat them okay
great I'm gonna be President but I'm
gonna eat five people I don't know we
got a lot of people imagine if you run
for president say I really love people
but I like to eat them it was a well
they're those are people don't eat them
I would say I'm telling you that by by
taking the lives of these few animals
I'm working on the full the full breadth
of this will tell you if you really
cared you just donate the money you just
donate the money to conservation
fuck the pittman-robertson Act just I'm
still feeling my family I'm still making
myself a better person I'm still
enriching my fucking life so don't tell
me I don't have the right to do that
because you think animals are sentient
you're still killing animals by driving
on roads and eating corn and doing the
things you're doing right but they're
not directly killing them by their food
choices well they don't know they are
that way so indoors like proxy killing
is better than than actual killing
well consciously right okay actual
consciously killing or buying something
that's actually consciously killed is
different then if you buy slick if you
buy soy if you eat tofu there
a fact and that fact is there has to be
a lot of animal displacement in order to
make that amount of field available to
grow soy and yeah or to grow soybeans in
it's just a fact and then when you talk
to anybody that's ever seen what happens
when a crop gets hit by a combine and
then the vultures start flying overhead
there's a reason because there's a bunch
of little fucking squirrels and rabbits
and all sorts of shit that just got
ground up and anything else that gets
stuck yeah in that field as those
gigantic machines come whirring by and
that's what that's how when you're
talking about large-scale agriculture
that's how things are harvested of
course they're not plucked one by one
now if you're one of those people that
has an organic garden and you pluck one
by one you take your rotten apple cores
and your fucking orange peels and you
you throw it all in a compost pile with
some dead leaves and and you use that as
fertilizer you're gonna run out of the
nitrogen because you need folks guess
what when you buy fertilizer it's dead
fish this look there's a fucking unusual
cycle it's really weird but that cycle
is that dead animals actually fuel the
plants that you consume so if you're a
person that is you know if you're even
if you're eating wild plants right you
want to eat some wild plants guarantees
them dead fucking squirrels and rats and
pigeons and anything else went to
fertilize fertilizer you probably had
that I mean they've proven that there's
salmon DNA sometimes in plants because
those plants have actually used salmon
for a fertilizer people have used that
those dead fish and that shit gets into
the plants themselves yeah so it's all
very strange I said there's no way out
man there's no way out of this like but
in their eyes even there's no way out
it's the out it's the path of least pain
and suffering and I would sell those
folks I respect the shit out of that and
I'm trying to do I'm trying to take my
own this into my own hands and actively
go and do the thing that I know to be
enriching to my life to make me a better
person to make me a more skilled person
to give me more perspective on the world
but at the end of the day the byproducts
of all that activity
is a healthier ecosystem and more more
wildlife because that's proven via the
model we've said and I feed my family
with that and I'm just trying to do what
you're doing in a more tangible way your
hands off I'm hands-on is the way that I
would would say that and I respect the
hands-off I respect like the I'm
cognizant of what's happening here and
I'm trying to make it better I respect
that I feel what you're saying and I see
what you're trying to do but if I'm
thinking through the eyes of a vegan you
can go fuck yourself I'm being the nice
guy didn't you cream a dick that's like
vegans a lot of them are dicks
okay any animals you're killing animals
you fucking asshole you think you get a
three to just kill animals and time you
bond or you don't some of them so I like
this devil's advocate side of you Joe
thank you did you see my mobiie you ever
look at mommy's page never Elmo has a
wonderful Instagram page never that
somebody's something that was so
preposterous the other day and I read
the comments under and I was like this
is so hilarious about eggs and this is
what it said I mean first of all folks
you come talking to a person who has
chickens eggs are like the most Karma
free thing says eggs cannot legally be
labeled as healthy nutritious or safe to
eat first of all this is true because
eggs are full of cholesterol and
saturated fat and because every year
100,000 people in the u.s. contract some
vanilla from eggs they cannot legally be
advertised as healthier safer nutritious
okay first of all that's not true okay I
don't know why you posted that Moby you
didn't look into it is there something
called quality how many people get
salmonella
from eggs every year because if it was a
hundred thousand the fuck that should be
in the news I would collapse so goddamn
fast so let's dismantle I got a please
please go ahead do that just dismantle
this preposterous idea that a hundred
thousand people get salmonella okay here
we go
even with safety steps in place it is
estimated that about one in 20,000 or 1
in 10,000 eggs are contaminated with
salmonella
wow that's a lot is mommy right
what does he what did he say 100,000
people get it right but we see if you
could find how many people in the US
contract Sal Manila because if they find
out that this Salmonella in eggs are
they finding out that's from uncooked
eggs every year about a million people
get Salmonella infected from foods that
have been contaminated by one of the
many kinds of salmonella
is he right okay let's let's see if it's
a hundred thousand people from eggs how
many people per year gets Salmonella
from eggs where does it say Salmonella
in the United States 142 thousand people
in the United States are infected each
year with Salmonella whoa hold on that
says from chicken eggs wait a minute 142
thousand people the United States are
infected each year with Salmonella from
chicken eggs and about 30 died dude not
only is Moby nothing movie right but
he's off by 42,000 now you're gonna be
way more of a devil's advocate I'm gonna
hit you heart with this devil's all
right let's go would you do don't have
any egg are the egg related kind of okay
oh yeah salmonellosis that's it guess
what it is when you get it so we found
yep not always it true it's from 2010
maybe it's different in 2018 142
thousand people the United States are
infected each year with Salmonella and
enter or itis and right and Rytas and
its a neuritis from chicken eggs and
about 30 died so he lost 30 pussies in
2010 an analysis of death certificate
joking more director of joking it's just
a joke asami podcast we're in the comedy
section of iTunes identified 1316
Salmonella related deaths from 1990 to
2006 whoa whoa now thanks moby but this
is a problem these fucking dummies are
eating them raw this is what I want you
to google how nutritious are eggs how
about Google this because a lot of ways
to look at this such a regional fucking
life I've never gotten salmon they look
pretty good look at you doing fine by
the way if you eat chicken raw you get
- stupid you're not supposed to eat it
rice was to cook it okay one egg has
only 75 hours but seven grams of high
quality protein 5 grams of fat and 1.6
grams of saturated fat along with iron
vitamins minerals and character
carotenoids the egg is a powerhouse of
disease fighting nutrients like lutein
and zeaxanthin ok movie so shut the fuck
up they're super super nutritious for
you just occasional back off Moby
somebody gets salmonella
how about just cook your cooking if
you're fucking egg bro
but here's where it gets really dark
watch Google this how many people die
every year from eco live from vegetables
that's right cuz a shitload anti corn is
actually from farmed animals it's
actually from an agriculture and runoff
and let's Google how much methane comes
from how much methane comes from vegans
broccoli yeah like hell let's go back to
this like where do you play the V he's
not just right he's he's more than
40-thousand right Moby please just six
degrees of Moby that's like edit your
post with the correct you're right about
like eggs are dangerous Pro don't lean
them wrong good diet don't need them raw
stupid okay here it goes
CDC estimates 260 265 thousand
infections occur each year in the United
States of ecoli Wow 36% are caused by E
coli zero one five seven point h7 dude
it's almost all from animal agriculture
it's almost all from from shit from shit
water here types of e.coli that can
cause illness can be transmitted through
contaminated water or food to contract
animals or people yeah but when they say
contaminated water what they really mean
is that water is contaminated with shit
from animal agriculture I think almost
entirely what is this timeline here the
source of e.coli that Google this most
prominent source of e.coli from in
vegetables I would guarantee you it's
animal agriculture I mean if you see
those gigantic fat farms that runoff and
source of e.coli in vegetables is that
what you said get it Joe you ski fine
you find it you find the evidence I'm
trying to be I'm trying to be a good
Moby yeah I'm trying to be vegan I'm not
argue for the vegans I'm vegan I like
this I like this so hard to do no it's
not hard to do it's a respectable
position man it just is it's all three
actually was the thing that popped up is
the most common way to acquire e.coli
infection is by ground B emanate
unpasteurized milk fresh produce and
that fresh produce means not cooked so
if you get broccoli yeah you have like a
yeah just spinach you're supposed to
cook spinach celery that's the problem
with romaine lettuce right because
Romain is you nobody ever cooks that
stupid fucking shit layers if the world
had no romaine lettuce do you think he'd
be okay I think it'd be fine daddy calls
it the hard lettuce he's like I don't
want that hard lettuce give me the soft
oh I don't like even soft lettuce
iceberg is just a joke that's just room
for meat I could be putting meat in my
stomach instead of that shitty ass it's
just delicious and lettuce yeah listen I
would say see I would say to you joe
rogan vegan yeah what I would I would
say you're very handsome man like you've
seen healthy healthiest fuck you have an
organic garden your backyard no no no I
got some shit I grow okay a little bit a
little bit not a lot get a lot of from
the store yeah and I don't buy meat from
the store like I get I get to opt out of
factory farming because I have a lot of
blog name stuff my own I have definitely
still bought meat from the store i buy
way less of it and I eat meat almost
every day yeah highway less but I'll
still go to a restaurant and order steak
yeah I feel like this is something
attribute people probably heard before
but it's like the feeling of eating
while gaming is just different it's way
different it tastes different it's
better for you it feels different it
feels different for my body yeah you
know I mean I have I remember watching
this thing about Ted Nugent once I was
like how's that guy got so much fucking
energy he's like 65 years old the time
period of the was he's eating deer every
day all day all day that I mean his love
or hate that guy there's a lot of power
to
his diet he's a good guy he get to know
him he really is people are saying to me
like job to do join the podcast I love
him how about that does he say things
that I agree with 100% I'm no I'm never
sat and talked to uncle Ted which you
know shit I worked at the NRA for a
while and like I used to get assigned to
the Ted Nugent talk that he gave at the
NRA annual meetings like I was a writer
for the NRA and like work for that
digital websites and I would get
assigned to like the Ted Nugent seminar
at the NRA annual Me's I would go and
sit in the back with Ted and he would go
broad brother and he it's crazy he's not
fake
he ain't faking that ain't like
something he just puts on for the
cameras that's Ted and but he is smart
man but he is as you found out on that
podcast which I thought was amazing like
that dude is sharp as they come you know
what also he's reasonable and open to
new information you don't think RJ - I
turned him on to marijuana yeah you did
okay this is a first of all he's using
CBD on a regular basis in fact if you go
to Ted Nugent official go to his fucking
his Instagram he was actually he was
advertising jambo CBD that I hooked him
up with yeah he was having some serious
knee pains he's had up you know he was
telling me about his days of
rock-and-roll jumping off of amplifiers
and he destroyed his meniscus this is a
shot I ran into him like three years ago
at a concert and went backstage and we
were chatting and he had huge ice packs
on each one of his knees I just had
surgery yeah I don't know what the
surgery was for but it like he clearly
he was clearly in pain and like he just
looked you know rundown but then we went
out in the crowd he came onstage he
looked like a 25 year old rock guy yeah
he fucking he's a hard-working man yeah
I mean when when the time comes the
lights are on that guy goes after it and
people like to so you support with the
racist things you said it is like it no
unfortunate you know whatever the fuck
he said that you didn't like that either
he shouldn't have said or maybe you
didn't understand what he meant
or maybe it's out of context anything
that hurts anybody's feeling unfortunate
and I don't support it but guess what
we're all we all have unfortunate things
about us
that's just the fact of being a fucking
human being and one
the parts one of the things that we're
doing when we're screaming out and
calling out someone and want someone
deep platformed and dismissed and never
never to be heard them again
we're worried us are worried that that's
going to happen to us we're worried that
we would ever exhibit that sort of
reprehensible behavior or language and
we want to we want to put a stop to it
in ourselves in other people we want to
eliminate it from our society and
culture we want to do it harshly and
ruthlessly and we're terrified that it's
gonna be done to us yeah you know and
there's a lot of people that make some
fucking really terrible mistakes and I
think there's got to be some sort of
path to redemption I really I really
believe that always because I meet you
know in hunting I'm certainly don't meet
the caliber of folks that you have in
this room but like I meet these people
and hunting then and I run around in the
in these circles and people are saying
this person thinks this and you've seen
that Instagram post I don't believe in
that and like knocking people down you
know and I just said I know that person
that's a good person you know and maybe
he's not he or she is not depicting this
in the way that you like it in this
instance that's a good well-meaning
person people are more than capable of
mistakes and we should be more than
capable of allowing them redemption and
forgiveness cuz we should want the same
thing for us should I be on this podcast
right now and have said something in the
last couple hours that was it was
terrible and like I would hope the folks
that know me would know that like this
is a mistake and as long as I own up to
the mistake and say hey it was in the
moment I apologized a little bit right
brain a little bit of my brain was going
yeah I apologize for that thing and it's
not that doesn't define me because
that's a very scary and slippery slope
to get down is like one moment you know
life can't define you it's also
something that's really it seems way
more recent and this this idea that you
know you want someone to never be heard
from again yeah you know they fucked up
and they should never be heard from
again and also I think and this is my
own bias I think it's a product of a
shitty way of distributing information
that has existed all of our lives until
recently and I feel like the law
form conversation is the only way to get
to know somebody and when you sit when I
sat down with Ted after the three hours
to talk to Mike I like this guy I like
him well like you I say I love when I
get off of a good podcast when I when I
mean there's like an episode of the
hunting collective and I sit down with
somebody and they're like oh my god this
person is like what they just brought to
my life in two hours I'm so fucking
happy to have had that yeah it's like a
high you get yeah it's a legitimate high
because you don't you say this all the
time you don't get to sit down in your
life and take two hours or three hours
with somebody and just talk and exchange
ideas and disagree agree and no
distractions no distractions yeah and
that like what that gives you and if
folks haven't done that like that it
gives you something every almost every
time and that's the only way you get to
know people
yes really it's it's very don't mean I
mean I don't mean just through podcasts
I mean in your life I mean if you don't
have a podcast sits sit down with
someone and talk to them for several
hours how often you do that with your
wife nah man it's fucking rare you know
I mean I have made a vested interest in
long-form conversation not just on the
podcast but in my life
really over the last like five or six
years yeah who better than you to say
that and be like this is informed the
way that I think the way that like it's
impacted our society and our culture
this show like it's changed the way I'd
feel about people yeah change the way I
feel about what what communication is
like I have convenient perceptions of
people I think we all do i defiantly go
all that guy's cool all that guy's not
or this girl's an asshole or whatever
whatever my convenient perceptions of
people I find that a lot of them are
based on these brief interactions
they're based on you know small amounts
of information it's been distributed
over long periods of time and maybe one
at one time I caught someone when they
were hammered they were being an asshole
or maybe I was hammered and I just I was
annoyed by them or well who knows what
it was but to really understand who a
person is you have to sit down with them
I think and just talk to them and you
have to do it
for a long time yeah and it takes a long
time and you also observe their actions
and observe them when they're tested and
reserve them under duress and and
there's no way to get out of like get
out of a long
conversation you can't say like hey I
gotta go now yeah I'm out of my depth
all the things I said about myself how
great I was before this now you're
opening up this chasm where I don't know
the things I said I knew but I could for
a 30 second on one minute TV spot I
could train I could I could yeah read
the lines and I could come off like I
look like I know what I'm talking about
there's no way to escape this this
freakin thing I just thought about
something like how fucked up would a
show be if you had just a husband and
wife alone in a room with no one
reacting to them right just them sitting
down at a podcast and then if that
podcast gets broadcast to the world and
the whole world gets to watch their
fucked up dysfunctional relationship and
how it plays out all the weirdness you
know the this weirdness that you see
around people in their wives and
sometimes you have a couple of cocktails
the wife will say something really
shitty and walk off shit it's like a cup
that spills over like just like keeping
all of it in the cup and then everyone
small you can't keep it in keep it in
and then there's just like the guy does
something douchey or the girl does
something Conti or whatever the fuck it
is and then you like whoa it first
starts that it starts to trickle out in
this passive-aggressive way and then
eventually if you're there long enough
it just becomes aggressive there's no
long enough and that's one of the things
about alcohol
it's so beautiful how that aggression
just comes out after you put okay I got
you tell me if you like this you tell me
if you like this idea I had this idea
the other day that's basically what
we're doing it now is that I would do a
show about ethics around like hunting
and the outdoors and things but it would
just be called drunk ethics where I
would just be drinking with people and
having intelligent conversations that
would increasingly get more and more
fucking weird more or fucking weird and
open because I'm getting yeah yeah
drinking I don't mind dream I'm drinking
right now through this whole thing you
are to other than other than the fact I
had to pee like yeah it's been a great
I'm not a I'm not anti drinking I think
there's something to be gained from the
release of inhibitions yeah you know
there's something that's me there's a
reason why I have such a strong place
socially well plug for a wry brain I
mean I'm releasing inhibitions but also
increasing brain function
the same time your brain so can few
hashtags it's like what what what
hashtag rye brain I think that would be
a wicked podcast though every week you
get together a couple that's been
fighting about things maybe have a
therapist in the room something fun that
there's no therapies will ruin
everything
that's true people fight you just break
up this just Duke it out until they
can't take it anymore then just just go
with a way of Ben Affleck and JLo this
fall for a short period of time you were
in love let it hit the rocks move on
folks don't you want to have a new
person you like do you have anything
listen up do you have any like marriage
advice like I've been married for coming
up on five years I have a two-year-old
my wife wants to have more children I
just bought a new house living in the
brand-new house in the new town you've
got a lot of things going on that are
pressure points I'm living the American
dream yeah look I'm very happy with my
family they're wonderful people I love
them but like I want to sustain this I
have a great thing I'd like to put my
arms are gonna keep yeah this is so
great I don't want it to go away
well just that attitude alone your your
awareness of how special it is you know
you are doing the thing that everybody
thinks of when they think about like
fulfillment in life you're raising a
child you're having children yeah you're
you know you're engaged in this intense
relationship with another human being
we've created a person all those things
those are giant man there was a giant
and also you're engaged in an activity
the 50% of the people fail hard it goes
down hard it's screaming and swearing
hands of all the levels of failure in
life like there's nothing more no
failure more impactful than a divorce
I've met I mean if have so many friends
that have been fired from jobs and it's
not fun it's not good but they bounce
back yeah you bounce back they the will
I've seen guys lose who they are from
divorce I've seen it happen I've talked
about this too many times but as a true
story I have a friend who has been
divorced to a woman for 14 years he's
been married to a new one for 12 he
has a family he has children with this
new woman it's over with the old one he
still pays her every year and there's a
pond so children because he fucked her
so hard she's got work it's because it's
crazy because the laws are insane
the laws are insane they don't make any
sense we're not talking about a woman
who is like 80 years old and can't work
anymore either
we're talking about completely you know
viable human being dude it's bananas it
is banana for that to flip like you said
went back to like the I do thing like
when you say I dude there's never I did
have a buddy who when he said I do and
they turned around she looked man he
looks scared she bad I probably bet that
she didn't say it right yeah he did say
that I just say that I wanna be like a
movie yeah yes some people just don't
they're not supposed to be together but
they think they should be with somebody
yeah they find somebody and they talk
that someone into doing something
fucking insane like signing a legal
contract says you're gonna be together
forever and ever till death but see like
what my problem is a very lucky problem
that I've got something that at least in
its like early years this seems to be
the right thing love you honey
hope you ain't listen she made it this
far what are we two hours what 30
minutes yeah she she's she's she's got a
two-year-old by herself at home she
checked it love you been long time ago
but I like you know my challenge right
now is I think about life I'm like I got
this wonderful beautiful thing yeah and
I'm just the stress is that I'm gonna
fuck it up well that is always a stress
and I think that's one of the reasons
why a lot of marriages fails because of
this intense pressure of the
relationship you know like there's a
finality and and I understand the need
for this finality right this is a need
for this contract and that everything
locked down if you're a woman you can't
like you when you're raising children
you need help right you need a man to be
there to help you raise it hopefully but
you also need financial help it's
difficult you know it'sit's this is all
it makes sense that the woman would want
to lock things in yeah
like that it makes sense it's also a
weird cultural tradition right it's this
weird thing that we have this law like
we we bring the law involved into
relationships and it's it's very strange
like legal contracts yeah and some of
them are fucking preposterous right
sometimes you see a guy who looks like
Rupert Murdoch right and he's got this
banging wife and she's like 30 years old
and she's got big tits or how about
Harvey Weinstein and his wife she's in
it for the right reason and you're like
hey son
I see what happened here he sees it too
when they say I do they're like yeah
this is disgusting troglodyte type you
know just a gelatinous looking Jabba the
Hutt looking man and a beautiful hot
young wife because the guy's got fucking
kajillions that's a normal thing then
they're both editors I thought I put up
any pictures but they're both going to
those folks there was we're both going
into that knowing like hey look this
isn't a traditional or pairings maybe he
was really sweet with her and that's all
she needs maybe she's just this rare
soul that if he had five dollars in his
pocket she'd be super happy with him
that'd be fucking doubt I would doubt it
as well it is like a motherfucker
oh damn it fucking doubt it yes it's a
preposterous Union in the first place
it's listen there's some relationships
that you could define as legal
prostitution they are absolutely legal
prostitution a woman has made a
determination that she let this sloth
yes
flew it into her vagina on an
intermittent basis if she could be
bathed in diamonds and drive a Ferrari
and live in a mansion this is a normal
part of life some people would say and I
might even say like as long as they're
consenting and they're both aware that's
going on then well that would be a good
argument for prostitution as well though
wouldn't this a bit of a transaction I
guess I don't know it's a transaction
yeah I guess when you look down at this
right that way I've always said why is
it okay to give someone massage you give
some massage but you can't you can't
even jerk them off it's not legal
God
it decides who can touch your penis and
like if the massage therapist says hey
yeah I really enjoyed giving you massage
let's go somewhere afterwards of my own
freewill and I'll jerk you off I'd be
like that would be fine that's funny
you're right you just can't do it right
in the confines of the massage parlor
unless you've got a public health issue
and that's just like if loads smell like
gunshots and you were
he could have massage power it's like a
shooting range Lee oh fuck is going on
this place devil purify that man yeah I
mean so there's a lot of laws that are
ridiculous but there's there seems to be
someone here as the merit advise I'm
looking for I got it maybe it was what
we were talking about earlier maybe it's
long-form conversations having long
conversations with each other I haven't
long respect like respecting the fact
that you can't get through some of this
stuff in a very short time I I've always
said like I appreciate a nice road trip
for that reason oh yeah yeah yeah you
hanging out with each other for long
periods of time yeah i'd like i'd much
rather the stress of an airport with the
kid and the wife is not i'd much rather
just drive it take the time because you
get this like connection if you can get
the phones out of the way yeah for the
passengers you just get this connection
that you wouldn't get otherwise yeah
doing things together that are unique
that that helps you know yeah
experiencing things together but also
you also have to both have the mindset
that you enjoy each other's company yeah
and you want to make it work good yeah
and some people just don't man and this
is seen that happen right we've all seen
relationships where the girls just like
check please yeah the guys like baby I'm
different but it's at 50 like you said
it's a 50/50 thing so like you have been
married for quite some time and and we
were talking about prior to where we're
shooting our bows out there like you're
you know like there's things you've done
to make it work like you like your wife
and she likes you and it works and it's
been working for a long time and like
the percentages say that's that's would
you say 50/50 is it Chris Rock had a
great joke about it you said he was 50%
of the people leave you go
he goes but how many cowards just stay
look relationships don't always work but
here's the thing you don't always know
who the fuck you are
yeah and I'm a different person than I
was five years ago yeah I just am yes I
guess hope I'm a better person I'm
trying very hard to be a better person I
certainly know more about myself I
understand myself better this is a long
slow process I think we are all a work
in progress that's right
and not everybody engages in this work
so you could be a person who's on this
path of you know being present and and
trying to be kinder and trying to
improve and then you have a spouse male
or female that just shits on you and
I've seen that too man I've seen me too
really brutal toxic relationships where
they insult and say rude things around
your friends to try to fuck with you and
and people get into these these
relationships where they genuinely hate
each other yeah but they're stuck
together with those two children too
because I told my dad I wrote my dad
this letter recently was getting real
deep in our number-3 of the podcast Pro
nuance I sent it to my dad but he won't
listen to this but I wrote this letter
that was like listen man because I
thought I had seen recently like his
developing relationship with my son and
like it shot it put this thought in my
head that you know my relationship my
dad the kids caring for me the fact that
he stayed with my mom and they developed
this like place for me to grow and
nurtured me and allowed me to become a
person in that environment like it was
the North Star from you and then I left
that environment like I always I never
wondered what my path was gonna be I
always could look up and be like that
bond that I developed my family their
love for me is like the thing that I'm
always you know I'm looking back to but
also looking forward to because that's
what defines me and regardless of what I
do I can always fall back on that that
my dad loves me my mom
me I love them and I grew up like with
this strength of soul because I knew I
don't have I have friends that came from
the same place that I did same town I
did in Maryland that OD don't heroin
they lived in the same little suburb
suburbia community that I did they had
parents that were the same age they went
to the same high school they lived in
the same environment they went down one
way I went down another and I truly do
feel that that me going down that way
was the way of my parents like built
this structure around me that was always
about that bond that love and the things
that that's very very fortunate yeah
very and I and that's what in that that
me being able to later on in life see
how fortunate I was to have that drove
me to not fail and to not let like
whatever other failures creep into my
life around you know maybe I'll take
drugs a lot a lot of friends place I
grew up in Maryland there's a lot of
people at succumb to drugs and alcohol
and things like that a lot of friends
died
yeah Baltimore's a rough spot yeah man I
come from town call it the Hagerstown
Maryland I say like come from a town but
the Western Maryland is kind of it's a
corridor for interstate 78 interstate 81
and there's a lot of drugs there and
there's a lot of my friends that are
either in jail or no longer around that
a lot of successful ones too but that
happened to me yeah and I was able to be
I was able to look at that moment and be
like I came from the same place they did
the same environment the same friends
the same the same activities we all
hunted and played sports and we all do
we know we hung out together I went one
way they went another way do you
attribute that entirely to your parents
or is it possible that it's like who you
chose to hang out with as well and the
activities you engaged in because I
unfortunately I know people that were
good parents yeah that had kids that
od'd yeah and listen I can't look that's
is I'm not trying to generalize in any
way about you know anyone situate my
situation was that I could always I felt
like and I told my dad at some point my
life where I said I went to him and I
was like maybe 20 or 19 and I said I'm
gonna get all A's now I'm done fucking
around
like cuz I was a c-plus dude and you
know I was the dumbest kid in the smart
class through high school and there was
there was a time my life I realized that
like I had to pay back while my parents
and my grandparents and my family had
done for me because I knew that they'd
given me something that not everybody
had and I knew I was like I know that I
have to pay this back and I gotta stop
messing around now and go and do
something that's interesting because
they did a great job then because
sometimes what happens when people were
raised with a giant safety net of love
yeah
they become unambitious yeah they become
I think I was close to that I was boys I
was close to that a little bit like fall
like I'm going to Community College and
smoking a lot of weed and and trying to
have a good time yeah yeah no but there
was a time in my life there was a
legitimate I my life where I said my dad
I don't remember it but my dad remembers
it though I just came to him like
alright it's over now it's time for me
to just buckle down and get it done well
the difference between a child that
you're taking care of and then someone
who has to be on their own is ten years
right an eight year old no one expects
an eight year old take care of
themselves but an 18 year old time to
get your shit together
that's yeah fucking quick it's a hard
concept quick hard concept it's it's
it's unbelievably hard and unless you
introduce that child the hard work and
the rewards of hard work and you're in
their life
you're probably gonna set them up for
some kind of failure I was extremely
fortunate that I found martial arts yeah
holla was that my biggest struggle in my
teenage years and I found something that
was insanely difficult but the highs the
rewards were it's like nothing I've ever
experienced in my life yeah so I
realized like okay to get really good at
something you have to be able to put in
the kind of energy that most people are
not willing to do and that's what
separates you from them the finer
discipline put a massive amount of
energy and focus into that discipline
and then be obsessed with it then the
rewards come if you analyze it correctly
and pursue it with everything that you
have you're gonna figure out how to get
better as long as you don't get really
fucked up along the way there was a real
possibility of that so what I realized
early on and very lucky was that all
these people that I saw around me
that we're engaging and all this really
risky behavior really crazy violence and
drugs and what they were doing was
looking for thrills yeah that's what
they were doing but they were looking
for thrills in an easily accessible way
didn't require discipline it didn't
require years and years of training and
focus and commitment it didn't require
that what I was doing was something and
I was just lucky that I found this thing
I just didn't want to get bullied
picked on I was little I wasn't a big
kid you exerting like some control of
your life that well I was just realized
I was like I can't fucking do that I'm
tired of being scared of people this
Carter this dude give me this the
fucking tough guy look and I gotta go
the other way cuz I'm scared
I just didn't want to be that I didn't
want to be that um so that carried on
with me for my whole life
yeah but I've seen so many people that
didn't find a discipline and they just
bounced around like our core Katzie
forever
yeah man it's one of the reasons why I
push it so much I was like whatever the
fuck it is that you can do that you like
to do that's competitive like one of the
things about competition is not just
that you prove I'm the fucking man know
what it is is hard it's working
competition is one of the hardest things
because if someone's trying to do it and
you're trying to do it it's like how
much do you want it how much more do you
want than they want that's right and
that's that becomes this crazy fucking
battle internally as well as extra but
you say like all the time say pressure
creates diamonds right yeah in my case I
realized that I didn't I realized
somewhere in my life that like there I
have the opportunity to there's not
enough pressure right mmm I have this
like soft like said soft thing to fall
back on which is like you know
middle-class family they'll probably let
me live there all right yeah but it's
like I had the opportunity to do that
but I think I just realized that part of
the reason I wanted to push forward and
do it and find something that I was
passionate about because I knew that I
had a choice I had a I had a choice that
I could do I could try to do something
different or I could fall back on what
I'd been given and I felt that what I'd
been given
was significant enough to my life that I
owed it I know I did something I owed it
to drive toward whatever happiness I
could find right and it was it was that
the stability of my family life and it
wasn't perfect but it was it was pretty
good and rather than sink into that I
was like I'm gonna just push push
through that and use that as fuel
oh that's intelligence you know I mean
you have an awareness you figured out
what you can do and what what where this
can go wrong and you recognized it and
you decided to make some changes not
even and I'm sure I'd like it'll have
ups and downs but hunting is the thing
that enriched my life truly did and as
much as it is problematic in the way
that's presented in society and the way
that that people see it when they look
at it through like a shallow lens I can
say truly that it's enriched my life in
ways I'll never be able to like truly
like I met you through it like I met a
lot of people I met I've I've been a lot
of good people through yemen's with
people that again the problem is looking
at it from the outside versus
experiencing it the people that you're
meeting these are people that are doing
something that's insanely difficult and
it doesn't seem like it is for a lot of
folks you look in the outside like what
do you what's so difficult to shoot an
innocent animal bowhunting which is what
you and I mostly do is one of the most
difficult things I've ever done in my
life and I've done a lot of difficult
shit
it's fucking difficult it's incredibly
difficult and they're people that you
meet are not just disciplined but
they're in great shape you have to be
like there's a physical exertion aspect
to it that's completely ignored and
misunderstood or people are ignorant of
it not that it's ignored they just don't
understand it it's it's almost like an
athletic pursuit that sustains life yeah
it's very very there's a reason why
campaigns is out there running marathons
and ultramarathons right now he's I mean
he's not just doing that because he
enjoys fitness and he most certainly
does he's doing that because it helps
him as a hunter does and that to a lot
of people they're like wait what are you
talking about
like that doesn't make any sense I've
seen hunting yeah I mean if you listen
this podcast and you never hunted like I
wouldn't encourage you to go and find
these people
on the internet on social medias and
things and understand that each one of
them represents in my opinion a layer of
hunting right John Dudley represents to
me I'm he's a wonderful human being but
like at its core on social media he
represents the expert Archer yes that's
a layer of hunting that you need to have
so you can be successful campaigns
represents the physically fit hunter and
that's a layer that you need to have if
you're going to be ultimately successful
like Remmy Warren represents like the
ultimate predator being able to think
about like an animal does and move like
an animal does and that's a layer that
you have to have if you're gonna be
ultimately successful in Steve Rinella
represents the great thinker the great
you know theorist and all these are like
layers that you have to have at some
level to be a good hunter to be the best
hunter like to be successful
consistently yeah you have to know so
much and one of things when I got into
it that was interesting that Steve said
to me he said you're gonna really like
this because it has so many layers to it
it's like there's there's a lot of room
to learn and grow and you never can
master it no you can't you get
especially bowhunting yeah what are the
possibilities you're gonna run into the
same scenario over and over and over and
over you never mean you get lucky a
couple years in a row but eventually
you're gonna run into some sort of a
situation where the wind catches you
something goes wrong you step on a tree
branch and snaps and it's one it's like
it teaches you accountability too
because when you release an arrow yeah
you are you can say whatever you want
and I've had all these situations where
I've arrow has landed in place I didn't
mean it to and it teaches you this
countability
yeah it teaches you ultimate
accountability when you release that
arrow there's not you can't go get it
back and if it hits the animal in a
place and wounds it that animal suffers
it is on you 100 pen there is no way to
get out of it there's no way to get out
of that feeling and I've had I don't
know about you but I've had like months
months like six months of just like I
don't want to overstate it's not
hyperbolic but like just really a lot of
pain around like I did and I it was my
fault I got lazy
I was presumptive I got too confident I
just screwed up in the moment I don't
know what happened but
I've sent a very sharp object into the
rump of a big elk and it ran off and
never to be seen again well the
consequences of that one motion the one
movement that's going to release that
arrow or so significant that it fucks
with your head done that's where what we
were talking about you know we've talked
about this many times but target panic
that's what that is that's the
realization of the anticipation of the
moment and the consequences the
understanding of the potential negative
consequences and they're overwhelming
yeah and they haunt you they do and
that's the stuff don't fuck it up and
then you never should think don't fuck
this up yeah and to me there's massive
parallels with martial arts but also
with playing pool like if you're about
to shoot if that's what I was gonna
bring don't miss don't miss don't miss
you're gonna fuck and you want but also
there's no part of pool that like you if
the ball goes where you didn't intend it
to that animal gets Mane right right the
consequences are so much so you can
equate the consequences in your mind to
be successful because it's some level
you have to write has to be an important
motion for you to really care to do it
right but there's real and that's why I
say like one of the reasons why I
continue to do what I do is because this
is this thing is complex and I see other
people's confusion around it and I
appreciate their confusion and I
understand that it's hard to get and I
definitely want to find ways to like to
make it easier an analogy would be pool
imagine if every time you play pool you
waited days and days for one shot yeah
and you didn't know what the shot would
be and sometimes you had to shoot it
quickly and if you missed and didn't
make the shot an animal would scream out
in agony and die a slow death and you
would be sick for months that's when you
think about how difficult it is to
perform under that moment the bruh this
this intense pressure you have the one
moment there's nothing else this stress
me I just think about it because it is
it's real life though I guess and I
think Steve Rinella price said it at
some point or you did or somebody really
smart did this like it's a three
dimensional experience in cool
like riding and rollercoasters thrilling
but the third dimension isn't there
because when you get off nothing
happened really right you got the thrill
but there was no consequence of the
thrill and really that's kind of the
point of buying a ticket to ride on a
rollercoaster getting a thrill without
having to take part in anything
substantial with hunting you there is
thrills there's fun you everybody's seen
videos of dudes whooping and hollering
and hugging you and I've done it around
the killing of an animal it's not that
because I always ask myself like some
really key questions like why is killing
gratifying like what's what's the answer
to that really what's the answer to that
and I was like and that's gonna be hard
to explain there's a bunch of things
going on pretty hard to explain one to
someone who doesn't know what it is one
thing that's going on is you just
accomplished something that's insanely
hard to do and you're relieved that
their animal died and that relief
manifests itself in exuberance you you
you high-five you hug you let go you go
fuck yeah you're happy that it happened
and it died quickly yes that's a big
part of it that is a part of it yeah and
I made this like post on social media
yesterday around like gripping grins
gripping grins man your your anti
gripping grid for a long time big
sticking point it did explain to grip
and grin for the uneducated we were
talking about I was talking about this
about we're gonna try to write an
article for the meteor calm about a pup
a grip and grin is there's I mean
there's this goes back many many years
I mean goes back to Teddy Roosevelt it
goes back to the turn of century market
harms like the photos we showed earlier
I mean it it's taking a photo with the
thing you just killed is no new thing to
us this is all this photos his oldest
photos grip and grin just means you're
with the animal you're gripping its
antlers are gripping a part of the
animal and you're smiling and and you're
happy that you did that what I think
what I would say about gripping grins is
that it's been weaponized right we
everybody that's listening to this map
has likely seen the girl with the
giraffe the girl the giraffe the guy
with the lion the girl and like the
other girl that did giraffe the guy with
the baboons like it's been weaponized
and it's it's it's been weaponized to a
point where it's the thing the first
thing that somebody like say like Ricky
Gervais smite
he finds this thing online he eats meat
by the way he does how about that how
about that how about that your head him
on here no but I talked to him and Opie
and Anthony it's a nice guy hunting if
they eat to me yeah it's like it so
we've weaponized the term trophy would
weaponize this gripping good thing and
then the overall society and we know I
know that hunting is that if honey was a
business not a lot of people would buy
stock in it I mean it there's less
people doing it it's less relevant to
society and the weapon that a lot of
folks are using that don't like it is
this photo and the photo depicts a
person smiling next to or overtop of a
dead animal and so at its face it
absolutely says I'm happy that there's a
dead animal in front of me it's not
enough information for such a
significant moment and that's what so
what I've said around like around the
photo is it happened for a very long
time but then social media became a deal
right and during the 80s and 90s grip
and grains were like I remember going to
like my first trade shows as a kid or
and people would have like flipbooks
of grip and grits mm-hmm they would like
get him out be like you see what I
killed this year before before
cellphones or whatever they would bring
him out be like look at that look at all
the things that kill and it was like
this this this communication between
hunters that was legit like they I know
what a group Marine is I'm not
questioning it but then social media
becomes prevalent people start posting
these photos to everyone where they
can't control the messaging anymore and
it's it's one of the easiest things one
of the most oxymoronic things to go
pluck from hunting and be like don't
understand this this looks fucked up let
me apply that to trophy hunting and let
me dam this person for this photo and so
with that lady with the goat recently
yeah invasive species yeah on an island
where they have to kill it it's killing
all all the native wildlife
yeah but then later on they find that
there's a photo of that young lady with
a bloody dildo with a goat blood on it
did you not hear about that part what
yeah we're gonna have to get that on the
old Google machine what
yeah that's a tough subject for three
hours in but that happened
what do you mean just pulling up stuff
that's hard for me to explain this
there was like a some sort of
bachelorette party or something and that
young lady the same lady that was in the
sky land correct yes what the goat was
also photographed with a bloody dildo
goat blood I believe so
why was she trying to say I don't know
maybe she's just partying she could have
been just having a great time
what if there's a photo with me with a
bloody dildo you would go figures I got
them Rogen that jambo dildo he's had too
much hi brain I hope I'm right about now
but didn't just make that up
no but we've discussed that internally
it a bunch Jamie say hit me up Jamie
what's up it's like the fist thing
doesn't look like it's not like a dildo
like you're thinking of oh it's like a
fist dildo is it as even are you not
gonna show oh yeah I can show you guys
keep it to himself there you okay that
that's that that's the thing okay oh
it's just it's a fist is that for
fisting this is hunter and homophobe la
slam for photo with dead sheep bloody
sex toy
okay that's Fox News huh so that's
recently is this recent when is this
yeah this is so it's quite a few months
after the initial image yeah so this is
a different animal she's with it looks
like some yeah she's got well she's got
there's looks like an ibex and then
she's got what looks like a muffle
another dead animal on British soil she
posed with a sex toy and the dead sheep
well maybe there's some context to it I
mean maybe there's a I don't like I said
I don't a bet it doesn't look good let's
just say that yeah in the context
husband said listen if you do shoot one
this is what you have to do maybe there
was a bet
that's I don't know I need the details
around but that photo is just like the
baboon one just don't look good what are
you saying Jamie okay it says gearing
said that the marital
had been given as a birthday present but
said Swift lik how do you say your
name's witless wittle ik sort of was
rude and arrogant throughout the trip
whose gearing I think must have been her
international host maybe she's on the
trip with I was on the run the women on
the trip okay well that sounds like two
chicks didn't get along her side of it
it was a bit of fun during the party
we marital aid okay the man isn't giving
us a birthday prison so now I have no
idea why I was brought out the following
day on the hunt it was an appalling
thing to do a complete disrespect to the
animal she didn't she has just the
animal doesn't know yeah it was dead and
I don't I mean it's weird but I don't
you know I don't know if I'm horrified
by it I'm not friends with her any
longer in fact she's the reason I left
the hunt early because I was so against
what she stood for and her more okay I
don't want to read this yeah I don't
know chicks chicks ladies with each
other I've never met that person I don't
know them but that happens like this
this is just an example of who knows the
weaponizing of these situations where
somebody all those get pulled out
everybody woo
every time I did not know about that
though ya know it's interesting that's
one one example but that's that's what
ends up happening around these images
now when I posted this thing the other
day half people would say like don't
stop doing what you're doing if you feel
it's right and you feel respectful as a
hunter and you're telling the entire
story and what part of that story is to
sit behind am once my land and signify
how great you feel about it then go for
it exactly that's what you should be
doing don't let someone else change your
behavior the other side of things is
like every hunter has a chance to impact
somebody that doesn't go hunting every
hunter there's 11 million hunters they
have a chance to impact the millions and
millions of folks who aren't exposed to
hunting at any point in their lives and
so I can see I can really see both
things but for me it's it's a issue of
if I want hunting to continue in the way
that it does and
I want my social media privileges to to
make hunting better I would probably
choose not to put that out there unless
it was in the context I felt very
comfortable with that's very fair it's
that's not just fair it's honest and it
makes sense but obviously if you had
those photos and you showed them to
someone like me who's hunted it wouldn't
bother me at all be like yeah you got a
nice deer it's all about context it's
all like I could slide it across the
table to you or text it to you and you
would say cool man congratulations
you and I have been on several hunts
yeah we know what it's like we we
there's no we don't have to explain what
it is the problem is it's like fast food
for an idea yeah
you're just it's a tiny little thing
it's not real you're not you're not
getting the full context to where the
food came from or how the animal was
raised and how it was killed and turned
into a burger you just get in the burger
real quick and this is like what you're
getting with the photo just getting a
photo yeah they're not getting the full
context of the experience that led up to
you shooting this deer that might be
like this 200 inch mule deer that's the
year of a lifetime you have this giant
smile and you're like you can't believe
you outwitted this old monarch of the
forest and and put an arrow in his own
his ribcage for sure and I and I think
that that's a totally legitimate way to
express your hunting for me if you were
to ask me today I would say I would
probably not give anybody the chance to
misrepresent my shit I don't put
pictures like that up anymore you don't
very same reason but I thought in the
past but I put a lot of elk meat up yes
for me it's like I I put the meat up I
put all the whole story up but if I was
to say like I always I said in the very
beginning of the whole meat not liking
group and greens conversation I said if
if someone had said Ben can you give
that up for the betterment of hunting
like could you just give that one thing
up that's traditionally it's been done
for decades where a guy kills a thing it
sits in front of it yeah
would you be willing to give that up if
for some way shape or form even if you
didn't agree with it it made for a
better hunting to not hunter to non
hunter relationship I would look fuck
yeah man yeah down for that yeah and so
I think that's what the conversation is
now is trying to determine is that the
best thing or not I'm not sure I have
the answer I think for anybody who's
listening is through our conversation
and sort of gets in there
standing where we're coming from they'll
appreciate that there's a lot of thought
involved here for anybody that sees that
photograph of you smiling with a dead
bear they're not going to appreciate
that it's gonna be real quick and
they're gonna have this how many people
are willing to sit here and listen to
this whole conversation and get a
converse together standing rather of how
your mind works
yeah and how you think about things not
nearly as many as we'll look at a photo
and go that guy's a cunt you know and
that's the Ricky Gervais stack deer
right right as much as I do
enjoy Ricky's comedy and when he looks
at these things like that first of all
that fucking giraffe one that giraffe
one was super complicated and Glenn
Greenwald and all these other people
they sipped a lot of people on that lady
that giraffe had to be killed that
giraffe apparently had killed at least
two or three Bulls and it was a
non-viable male and they made it out
like it was this rare giraffe but it's
rare because it's old it was dark
because the darkest ones are older yes
but that's we always get down these
rabbit holes these things somebody says
I'm mad about this photo and the next
thing we know we're debating the age of
a fucking single giraffe it's like it
matters it's like yeah it does matter
but it doesn't matter to the extent that
they try to make it they don't
understand what they're looking at but
they are looking at something that they
find displeasing yes and that's you're
right about that
and I find it displeasing as well I'm
like when I see that I like listen I'm
not a giraffe hunter I've never been to
that part of Africa I don't know that
person but just to look at that I feel
the same way as everyone else because
your apps are awesome yeah the thing
about dress I had a bit about him in my
act like they're the only animal that
looks fine with being in the zoo yeah
they're like another day with no lion
who lady they just strolling around like
you can babies feed your ass my fucking
daughter when she was two I held her up
and she had a piece of leaf and she put
it out there and the draft comes over
it's the only good animal that they let
babies feed no they don't let little
kids feed polar bears fuck you little
bear we'll be dining on fingers give me
your arm yeah man so I I get you're
right no you're right it might try I
just make sense I want it to be better I
want the conversation between not
between the Ricky Gervais Ricky Gervais
acts like an asshole in this context he
enjoys getting angry people but in his
defense the stereotypical hunter that is
in his mind what he's fighting against
yeah he's an asshole yeah yeah and I
would agree and I would be like dude I
agree with you most hunters agree with
you something that guy wants to fly to
Africa and shoot an elephant and is not
even gonna eat it yeah and he just wants
it because he's getting the Big Eight
yeah well there's a lot of weird shit
yeah the problem the problem I have with
that is like the specifically calling
out that single person or smaller group
subset of hunters that you don't agree
with to paint the entire group like that
they think that that's the only way they
can get people to stop yeah they think
that what they've done with Cecil look
they're they enacted real change yeah
there's been real change around a lot of
this stuff yeah with Cecil they enacted
real change but unfortunately a lot of
it has been negative what people don't
understand is how much it costs the
people that live there and about these
hunting concessions get closed down and
then these animals go wild and then what
happens is poachers just take over and a
lot of the animals get decimated the
same way they did in the United States
before market hunting was out well they
you look at what it what a concession is
right a concession and this happened I
want to say happening like the late 70s
and early 80s in Africa where there was
you know at especially antelope and
African antelope and all these other
species that were there they were they
were not at the brink of extinction but
they were suffering okay a concession is
essentially a bunch of rant landowners
get together and let's put a fence
around our stuff to keep everything keep
poachers out and keep the animals in
once you know in Africa wins especially
South Africa when concessions became
prevalent wildlife populations
skyrocketed you know triple-double times
ten hundreds of thousands of Anil Abed
were there before fortunately because
that's the only way they could have
values yeah value because they have
monetary value yeah and I don't know I'm
conflicted about that me too yeah I'm
conflicted about it it's like a thing
that worked but is that the way I don't
I don't know I've been over there I'll
probably never go back over there
because there's just so many things in
this North America I'd like to pursue
but like it's something I was involved
like I went and did and I realized hey
look
this is way too complicated and and if
there's too much weight too much
American influence based on the money we
bring you over there that isn't rooted
in exactly what's good for Africa right
so I I think like African hunting is
valuable it's like you can paint that
picture all day long they can be like
this is it's valuable it's about for
these reasons and nobody can not really
argue like the end result of the thing
but will it argue to argue the end
result because it's been so much more
effective than just conservation based
on donations yeah and that's what people
don't understand that argue against it
you're wrong when it comes to the
numbers the numbers you're wrong it's
right you would like to think that
people hunting zebras don't help but
they do yeah that's what they help way
more than people to go over to take
photographs yeah so so am I willing to
say like get rid of that so I can feel
better about hunting no fuck no because
I want there to be more animals the
number is so different in the amount of
money they contribute this is where
people have to understand because
they'll throw some numbers at you like
you know five thousand people go to
safaris only two thousand people huh
yeah sure but the two thousand people
that hunt they hunt and they spend way
more fucking money it costs a lot of
money to shoot a lion looks like fifty
thousand dollars as much as you find
lion hunting distasteful you have to
understand that if you remove it it's
like when you take a dictator out yeah
and then you have like a power vacuum
how do you replace it well it's just
like they're they're just some like on
the ground things that happen to around
look if you want to do wildlife viewing
you got to cut roads like yeah you got
to put if you want to do wildlife
viewing people are gonna pay less so
means you have to have more people
encouraging them on these places where
these wild animals are you have to make
parks where humans can't go and you have
to be prepared when humans get attacked
by anti yeah I'm just gonna fucking
happen and so it's it's never as simple
as it seems it is as simple as it seems
to say like the numbers say that that
African trophy hunting is benefiting the
wildlife now is it benefiting in the way
that everybody thinks is best
that's debatable but you can't you can't
sit here and say like if we end this
today they'll be more gay maybe like
it's probably the reverse is that
probably the reverse it might it'll hurt
your feelings but it's the reverse yeah
what's going on right now in Africa with
what would the exact area that Cecil the
lion happened in is that they had a call
200 lions they had to shoot 200 Lions
which means they had to pay someone to
go and shoot these lions because they're
their population gotten so high they
were decimating the undulate population
so all the Antelope and all the
different animals that the Lions were
hunting they were destroying them yeah
because they have to eat a lot man
but you're a 600 pound cat and all you
care you're a you're a meat processor on
four legs brow like there's no you can
be like hey listen man
listen just lay off for a couple of
weeks listen I know they're delicious I
know you really like to eat also you
know there they were just breeding
unchecked yeah and then their
populations quickly got to very
unmanageable no well it seems it sucks
it's never as simple as it seems the
mountain lions in California Washington
and Oregon like this year in Oregon and
Washington two people were killed one in
each state that hasn't happened in a
hundred years you know I've talked to a
lot of people that say that's an anomaly
but it happened nonetheless it doesn't
mean anything simple if it's an anomaly
it's also a reality is it yet those are
predators yeah and they're big and
they're they've killed I think 55 bears
in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem
this year just probably that number I
could be skewed in some way for me but I
think that's what I heard and that they
V a lot of black bears right that invade
I think this is this was all grizzly
bears that had either been hit by cars
or were nuisance or we're getting around
somebody's cattle that I've been shot I
think if that's the number you have to
look that up and confirm them right
about that that's a pretty serious
accusation if I'm wrong but you know
that happens in that this so there's no
simple there's no simple way to put it
many cages here with mountain lions mean
mountain lion hunting is outlawed in
California but they kill the same amount
of mountain lions and the way they
killed them is they have to hire people
and have to use public funds these tax
dollars and they hire a guy with dogs to
go catch these fucking cats tell him
yeah I mean we
we hours ago we talked about the North
American model of wildlife conservation
but that's a thing it's not infallible
but it's pretty fucking close my opinion
it's a very good system and there's more
stuff that we didn't cover but shit dude
port deep we're deep three hours into
this motherfucker how long Jamie three
hours a it's a good it's a good Jerry
it's a solid one
it's ozawa let's wrap this picture see
ya Ben O'Brien I'm glad we did this my
brother always good love you buddy I
love you too see ya
great to see it you're the man let's go
play some techno hon yeah all right
everybody bye bye bye see ya
[Music]